U.S. Consulate Kolkata, Uddami India Foundation jointly host ‘Power to Empower’ project finale
India Blooms News Service
02 Sep 2024, 09:28 am
20240902
https://www.indiablooms.com/life-details/L/7917/u-s-consulate-kolkata-uddami-india-foundation-jointly-host-power-to-empower-project-finale.html
Welcome remarks were delivered by American Center Director Elizabeth Lee.
The ‘Power to Empower’ project aimed to enhance and strengthen young women from marginalized community by connecting and training them to build a network of strong, positive and committed women leaders and entrepreneurs who would evolve as a change maker for the society.
33 young women from Kolkata and the neighbouring districts were trained on communication skills, soft skills, gender issues, basic finances and business ideas to help prepare themselves to come up as community leaders, entrepreneur and create an impact to the society.
The project included three workshops followed by a two-day concluding session where the participants revisited their journey and how they have evolved in one year.
The first workshop included capacity building on leadership, understanding Gender and understanding self was conducted from December 18-20, 2023.
The workshop was followed by an Action Plan for the participants in a group of three. The trainees formed 11 groups with a target to reach out around 400 to 450 young girls and women in two months.
The trainees have successfully reached out to around 470 young girls and women from high schools, colleges and also in the community, disseminating the knowledge from the first workshop and amplifying it within their peer group and community catalysing the empowerment process.
The second workshop included Developing Business ideas and financial empowerment was conducted from March 26-28, 2024.
The workshop was followed by the assignment of developing business ideas / prototypes by the participants.
They were divided in six groups, each group having five members.
All six groups worked on a business model and implemented it on field.
They made capital investment, developed their product / business ideas and also earned through selling.
They developed online marketing platforms, took part in exhibitions and also did one to one marketing to popularize their business / products and turned their ideas into profit in less than two months’ time.
The third workshop included Understanding ICT concept and Self-Management was conducted from June 18-21, 2024.
The participants learnt about AI, its increase use in every sector, trends and threats, financial proficiency, understanding savings, investment and confidence of money management.
The participants also gathered knowledge on Self-Management which included understanding the importance of nutrition, stress management, mental and physical health and how to work on it on a daily basis.
The third day of the third series workshop also included presentation of business models / prototype developed by trainees.
A panel of three judges (3 successful women entrepreneurs) chose two best models from six groups. They got the opportunity to present during the Finale of the project.
In the concluding session or the Finale, the participants had a brain storming session on the learnings and knowledge gained by them during ‘Power to Empower’ project, how and in what way the program has impacted them, and the community through them, and they would prepare a road map / a way forward for themselves by identifying the need and as how they will take the knowledge forward as a community leader and a change maker for her society.
The participants shared their individual journey and their experiences during the concluding session.
This was followed by the presentation of the two winning prototype / business models and then distribution of participation certificates.
