President Murmu flags delay in rape case verdicts, says common man feels judicial process lacks sensitivity
India Blooms News Service
02 Sep 2024, 01:56 am
20240901
https://www.indiablooms.com/news-details/N/99515/president-murmu-flags-delay-in-rape-case-verdicts-says-common-man-feels-judicial-process-lacks-sensitivity.html
She stated that it is a sad aspect of our social life that, in some cases, people with resources continue to roam around fearlessly and freely even after committing crimes.
Addressing the two-day National Conference of District Judiciary, organised by the Supreme Court of India, in New Delhi, Murmu said: "Those who suffer from their crimes live in fear as if those poor people have committed some crime."
President Droupadi Murmu graced the valedictory session of the two-day National Conference of District Judiciary, organised by the Supreme Court of India, in New Delhi. The President said that there are many challenges before our judiciary which will require coordinated efforts… pic.twitter.com/xeD5jUIcNc
She made the comment at a time when the country is witnessing nationwide protests over the rape and murder of the PG trainee doctor in Kolkata's state-run RG Kar Medical College and Hospital.
She also unveiled the flag and insignia of the Supreme Court on the occasion.
Murmu said that pendency and backlog of cases is a big challenge before the judiciary.

She stressed the need to ponder upon the serious issue of cases remaining pending for as long as over 32 years.
The President said that the poor people from villages are afraid to go to court.
"They become a participant in the justice process of the court only under great compulsion. Often they tolerate injustice silently because they feel that fighting for justice can make their lives more miserable," she said.
"For them, going away from the village to the court even once becomes a cause of great mental and financial pressure. In such a situation, many people cannot even imagine the pain that poor people experience due to the culture of adjournment. Every possible measure should be taken to change this situation," she said.

Murmu said that the children of women who are in prison, have their entire lives lying ahead.
"Our priority should be to assess and improve what is being done for their health and education," she said.
She stated that juvenile delinquents are also in the early stages of their lives.
Taking measures to improve their thinking and mental health, providing them with useful skills for living, and providing them free legal aid should also be our priority.
The President was happy to note that the Supreme Court has ordered the implementation of the provision of the Bharatiya Nagarik Suraksha Sanhita with retrospective effect.
