PM Narendra Modi meets Brunei Sultan Haji Hassanal Bolkiah, both leaders welcome elevation of bilateral ties
India Blooms News Service
04 Sep 2024, 05:01 pm
20240904
https://www.indiablooms.com/news-details/N/99587/pm-narendra-modi-meets-brunei-sultan-haji-hassanal-bolkiah-both-leaders-welcome-elevation-of-bilateral-ties.html
Prime Minister thanking Sultan for his gracious invitation stated that the first ever bilateral visit by an Indian Head of Government to Brunei reflected India’s deep desire to boost bilateral ties.
He highlighted that his visit was in keeping with India’s commitment to strengthen its ‘Act East Policy’, now in its 10th year.
"The two leaders welcomed the elevation of bilateral ties to Enhanced Partnership," read a statement issued by the Indian government.
The leaders held bilateral talks covering a range of topics including defence, trade & investment, food security, education, energy, space technology, health, capacity building, culture as well as people-to-people exchanges.
They agreed to explore and pursue collaboration in areas such as ICT, fintech, cyber security, new and emerging technologies and renewable energy.
The Prime Minister and the king also exchanged views on regional and global issues.
Both leaders condemned terrorism in all its forms and manifestations and called upon states to repudiate it.
Both leaders reiterated their commitment to work closely together in mutually beneficial areas to further strengthen the ASEAN – India Comprehensive Strategic Partnership.
The King also appreciated India’s support for Brunei Darussalam’s efforts in hosting the ASEAN Centre for Climate Change.
The two leaders witnessed the signing and exchange of an MoU on Cooperation in the operation of Telemetry, Tracking and Telecommand Station for Satellite and Launch Vehicles by External Affairs Minister Dr. S. Jaishankar and Brunei’s Minister of Transport and Infocommunications Pengiran Dato Shamhary Pengiran Dato Mustapha.
They welcomed the upcoming commencement of direct flight connection between Bandar Seri Begawan and Chennai.
"A Joint Statement was adopted after the talks," read the statement issued by the government.
