Chinese, Nigerian presidents announce elevation of bilateral ties
People's Daily Online
_
20240904
https://www.globalsecurity.org/wmd/library/news/china/2024/09/china-240903-pdo03.htm

People's Daily Online
(Xinhua) 08:05, September 04, 2024
BEIJING, Sept. 3 (Xinhua) -- Chinese President Xi Jinping and Nigerian President Bola Tinubu held talks on Tuesday and announced the elevation of China-Nigeria ties to a comprehensive strategic partnership.
Tinubu is in Beijing for the 2024 Summit of the Forum on China-Africa Cooperation (FOCAC) and a state visit.
China is further deepening reform comprehensively to advance Chinese modernization, which will bring more opportunities for the development of China-Nigeria relations, Xi said.
The two sides should work together to realize their respective modernization with high-quality cooperation and push China-Nigeria relations for new and greater development, he said.
Xi noted that the two countries should enhance strategic mutual trust, view and develop bilateral relations from a strategic and long-term perspective, and firmly support each other on issues of their respective core interests and major concerns.
Xi called for promoting the interconnected and integrated development of infrastructure, energy and mineral resources with industries, and fostering cooperation for new growth in areas such as the digital economy and new energy.
China supports Nigeria in fighting terrorism, maintaining regional stability and playing a bigger role in international and regional affairs, Xi said, underscoring the country's willingness to strengthen multilateral coordination with Nigeria to safeguard the interests of developing countries.
Tinubu highlighted the significance of deepening economic cooperation and developing a comprehensive strategic partnership with China, and said Nigeria hopes to become China's largest trade and investment partner in Africa.
Nigeria welcomes more Chinese enterprises to make investments and expand mutually beneficial cooperation in agriculture, manufacturing, mineral resources, energy and infrastructure in a bid to help Nigeria and West Africa achieve modernization and effectively get rid of poverty, he said, adding that Nigeria is willing to provide sound security conditions for this purpose.
After the talks, the two heads of state witnessed the signing of bilateral cooperation documents in areas including Belt and Road cooperation, the implementation of the Global Development Initiative, economic development, the application of the BeiDou Navigation Satellite System, peanut exports to China, and news media.
The two sides released a joint statement on establishing the comprehensive strategic partnership and building a high-level China-Nigeria community with a shared future.
Prior to the talks, Xi held a welcome ceremony for Tinubu at the Great Hall of the People.


