We Need the Abilities to Really and Fully Protect Ukraine and Ukrainians - Address by the President
President of Ukraine
_
20240901
https://www.globalsecurity.org/wmd/library/news/ukraine/2024/08/ukraine-240831-ukraine-president02.htm
President of Ukraine
31 August 2024 - 20:42
Dear Ukrainians!  Today in Kharkiv, the clearing of rubble on the sites hit by Russian   bombs continues. In total, yesterday's strikes took the lives of six   people in Kharkiv. My condolences to their families and friends.
Ninety-seven people were injured; all of them were provided with the   necessary assistance. And this is just in Kharkiv, and this is just one   day of Russian strikes.
Since this morning, Russian terrorists have also been bombing the   Sumy region with guided aerial bombs, and again the Kharkiv region. And   this terror can be effectively stopped only in one way: by strikes on   Russian military airfields, on their bases, on the logistics of Russian   terror. And most importantly, it is possible. We talk about it every day   with our partners. We convince them. We present arguments.
These days, our Ukrainian delegation is working in Washington: the   First Deputy Prime Minister, the Minister of Defense, representatives of   the General Staff, and the Head of the Office. There have been meetings   at various levels, and among the primary issues for us is the   long-range capability of our Defense Forces, the ability to prevent all   this terror that our Kharkiv and other our cities, many, so many   communities of Ukraine are forced to go through.
Clearing the Ukrainian skies of Russian guided aerial bombs is a   strong step to force Russia to seek an end to the war and a just peace.   Ukrainian representatives provided all the necessary information, all   the necessary details to our partners. And I appeal to the United   States, the United Kingdom, France and Germany: we need the abilities to   really and fully protect Ukraine and Ukrainians. We require both:   permissions for long-range use, and your long-range shells and missiles.   Vital decisions - exactly the ones that can influence events in the   right way - cannot be postponed.
We are also talking with our partners about air defense - about   systems, we need so much, especially now, before the school year starts,   to provide more security for our Ukrainian children in schools, for our   cities, for our energy sector. After all, we have the agreements with   you, on air defense and on missiles for air defense systems. It is   important to implement everything as soon as possible. We are working   even harder these days for such news - about additional air defense   systems.
I want to thank everyone in the world who is helping! And I thank all   the friends of Ukraine who do not keep silent about this Russian   terror, who react to all these strikes, who spread the truth about this   war and urge the world to be more decisive and therefore more effective   in defending Ukraine against Russia.
Today I spoke with the Commander-in-Chief. The Pokrovsk direction   faces the highest number of assaults. The situation is also difficult in   the Kramatorsk, Toretsk, and Kupyansk directions. Nearly two hundred   battles are being fought daily along the entire front. And the most   important thing now is to inflict maximum losses on the occupier and to   respond to all Russian strikes.
We also discussed with the Commander-in-Chief the details of our   offensive operations - active actions in the Kursk region. We continue   to replenish the exchange fund for Ukraine and push the war into Russian   territory. The resilience of each of our units, the precision of our   warriors and the strong decisions of our partners are equally crucial. I   thank all our combat brigades!
Glory to Ukraine!


