Russo-Ukraine War - 31 August 2024 - Day 920
_
_
20240901
https://www.globalsecurity.org/military/world/war/russo-ukraine-2024-08-31.htm
A number of claims and counterclaims are being made on the Ukraine-Russia conflict on the ground and online. While GlobalSecurity.org takes utmost care to accurately report this news story, we cannot independently verify the authenticity of all statements, photos and videos.
On 24 February 2022, Ukraine was suddenly and deliberately attacked by land, naval and air forces of Russia, igniting the largest European war since the Great Patriotic War. Russian President Vladimir Putin announced a "special military operation" (SVO - spetsialnaya voennaya operatsiya) in Ukraine in response to the appeal of the leaders of the "Donbass republics" for help. That attack is a blatant violation of the territorial integrity, sovereignty and independence of Ukraine. Putin stressed that Moscow's goal is the demilitarization and denazification of the country. The military buildup in preceeding months makes it obvious that the unprovoked and dastardly Russian attack was deliberately planned long in advance. During the intervening time, the Russian government had deliberately sought to deceive the world by false statements and expressions of hope for continued peace.
"To initiate a war of aggression... is not only an international crime; it is the supreme international crime differing only from other war crimes in that it contains within itself the accumulated evil of the whole." [Judgment of the International Military Tribunal]
The General Staff of the Armed Forces of Ukraine reported that since the beginning of the day, there have been 183 combat clashes, Russian forces launched four missile strikes using 9 missiles, 59 air strikes using 77 KABs, 381 kamikaze drone strikes and carried out almost 2,400 shelling the positions of Ukrainian troops and settlements using different types of weapons.
In the Kharkiv direction, Russian forces throughout the day carried out two attacks near vovchans зуka and liptív. One battle is still going on.
The Defense Forces repelled 25 attacks in the Kupyansky direction. The Russian opponent showed the greatest activity in the areas of Synkivka, Kolisnikivka and in the direction of Lozova, where clashes are still ongoing.  Seventeen times, Russian forces attacked in the Lyman direction, tried to advance towards eight different settlements and in the Serebryansky Forest. Concentrated efforts near Grekivka, Nevsky and Tverdohlibovogo.  In the Siversky direction throughout the day, Ukrainian defenders repelled eight Russian assault actions in the areas of Verkhnyokamiansky, Spirny, Zvanivka, Bilogorivka and Viimka. Fighting is still ongoing in four locations.  19 combat clashes occurred in the Kramators комуkomu direction. The largest activity of the Russian occupiers showed in the area of kalinívki - where spent more than half the attacks. The fights are still on.  The enemy tried to infiltrate Ukrainian defense 14 times in the Toretsky direction. During the day, Russian forces attacked in the areas of the settlements of Kurdyumivka, Toretsk, Nelipivka and New York. 13 attacks have already been carried out by Ukrainian defenders.  In the Pokrovsky direction since the beginning of the day in the areas of the settlements of Suha Balka, Vozdvizhenko, Zelene Pole, Novogrodivka, Hrodivka, Karlivka, Selidove and Mikhailivka Ukrainian troops repelled 30 Russian offensive and assault actions. Four of them are still going. Ukrainian troops are taking measures to maintain defined borders, giving a strict cut-off. According to preliminary data, for today Russian forces lost 168 people killed and 216 wounded, also Ukrainian soldiers destroyed two T-72 tanks, three BMPs and nine cars. In addition, two tanks and 17 enemy vehicles were significantly damaged.  In the Kurakhiv direction at this time of the day, there are 28 combat clashes. Zagarbniki maintain activity, trying to go forward in the areas of konstantinívka and georgíivka - carried out five and 13 attacks respectively. Also attempts to advance were made towards Ukrainian, lísívki and galicinívki. The Russian invaders will suffer losses.  In the Vremívs Наkomu direction, Russian forces attacked in the direction of Vugledara, Vodânogo, Makarívka and Vremívka. The situation is under control.  In the oríhívs йkomu direction, Ukrainian troops stopped four Russian attacks near small tokmačka and robotinogo.  In the Pridniprovsky direction, the situation has not changed significantly, loss of positions and territories is not allowed. Ukrainian soldiers repelled three attacks of Russian zagarbnikív.
The Ministry of Defense of the Russian Federation  reported that the units of the Sever Group of Forces in Liptsy and Volchansk directions have defeated the 92nd Air Assault Brigade and the 113rd Territorial Defence Brigade of the AFU near Alisovka and Volchanskiye Khutora (Kharkov region).
The AFU losses were up to 125 Ukrainian troops and two motor vehicles.
The units of the Zapad Group of Forces have improved the tactical situation and inflicted losses on manpower and hardware of 14th mechanised, 3rd assault brigades of the AFU, 1st national guard, 119th territorial defence brigades near Petropavlovka, Lozovaya (Kharkov region), Novovodyanoye, Chervonaya Dibrova (Lugansk People's Republic), Grigorovka (Donetsk People's Republic), and Serebryansky forestry.
Two counter-attacks of the AFU 77th Airmobile Brigade have been repelled.
The AFU losses were up to 460 Ukrainian troops, two armoured fighting vehicles, six motor vehicles, one 152-mm Msta-B howitzer, one U.S.-made 105-mm M119 gun, and three Anklav-N electronic warfare stations. Six AFU field ammunition depots have been eliminated.
The units of the Yug Group of Forces have taken more advantageous lines, inflicted losses on manpower and hardware of AFU 28th, 30th mechanised, 143rd infantry, and 56th motorised infantry brigades near Chasov Yar, Zaliznyanskoye, Kurdyumovka, and Konstantinovka (Donetsk People's Republic).
One counter-attack launched by assault detachments of the AFU 24th Mechanised Brigade has been repelled.
The AFU losses were up to 780 Ukrainian troops, one tank, one U.S.-made M113 armoured personnel carrier, four motor vehicles, one U.S.-made 155-mm M777 howitzer, one UK-made 155-mm FH-70 howitzer, one 152-mm D-20 gun, two 122-mm D-30 howitzers, two U.S.-made 105-mm M119 guns, one 220-mm Uragan multiple-launch rocket system combat vehicle, and two electronic warfare stations. Two ammunition depots have been also destroyed.
The units of the Tsentr Group of Forces have liberated Kirovo (Donetsk People's Republic) and continue to advance to the depths of enemy defences.
Russian troops lave launched an attack on AFU 44th mechanised, 95th air assault, 142nd infantry, 71st jaeger brigades have been hit near Grodovka, Kalinovo, Mikhaylovka, Rozovka, and Druzhba (Donetsk People's Republic).
In addition, seven counter-attacks of AFU 32nd, 53rd mechanised, 68th jaeger brigades, and the 37th Marine Brigade have been repelled.
The AFU losses were up to 455 Ukrainian troops, one armoured fighting vehicle, three motor vehicles, two 152-mm Msta-B guns, three 122-mm D-30 howitzers, and one U.S.-made 105-mm M101 howitzer.
The units of the Vostok Group of Forces have improved their position along the front line and hit manpower and hardware of AFU 72nd mechanised, 58th motorised infantry brigades close to Vodyanoye and Ugledar (Donetsk People's Republic).
One counter-attack launched by an assault detachment of the AFU 31st Mechanised Brigade has been repelled.
The AFU losses were up to 125 Ukrainian troops, one tank, one armoured fighting vehicle, and four motor vehicles.
The units of the Dnepr Group of Forces have engaged units of 65th mechanised, 141st infantry, 128th mountain assault brigades of the AFU and the 39th Coastal Defence Brigade near Novodanilovka, Orekhov, Nesteryanka (Zaporozhye region), Kazatskoye, Sadovoye (Kherson region), and Kherson.
The AFU losses were up to 80 Ukrainian troops, eight motor vehicles, one U.S.-made 155-mm M777 howitzer, one UK-made 155-mm AS-90 self-propelled artillery system, and one electronic warfare station. Two ammunition and one military hardware depots have been eliminated.
Operational-Tactical Aviation, unmanned aerial vehicles, and Missile Troops and Artillery of the Russian Groups of Forces have destroyed one U.S.-made M270 MLRS launcher, in addition, assembly workshops for unmanned aerial vehicles, one missile and artillery weapons depot as well as clusters of enemy manpower and military hardware in 135 areas.
Air defence facilities have shot down four U.S.-made ATACMS operational-tactical missiles, six French-made HAMMER guided bombs, six Czech-made Vampire projectiles, and 48 unmanned aerial vehicles.
In total, 641 airplanes and 283 helicopters, 30,749 unmanned aerial vehicles, 575 air defence missile systems, 17,790 tanks and other armoured fighting vehicles, 1,433 combat vehicles equipped with MLRS, 13,846 field artillery guns and mortars as well as 25,474 units of special military equipment have been destroyed during the special military operation.
The Ministry of Defense of the Russian Federation also reported that the Armed Forces of the Russian Federation continue to repel the AFU attempt to invade the territory of the Russian Federation.
The units of the Sever Group of Forces supported by Army Aviation and artillery have repelled six attacks launched by enemy assault detachments in the direction of Borki, Bakhtinka, Komarovka, Malaya Loknya, and Matveyevka.
In addition, attempts by the Armed Forces of Ukraine to launch attacks in the direction of Korenevo and Malaya Loknya have been foiled. The AFU losses were up to 30 troops killed and wounded, two armoured fighting vehicles, and two motor vehicles. One serviceman of the Armed Forces of Ukraine surrendered.
The Armed Forces of the Russian Federation continue reconnaissance and search operations in forestry areas to locate and eliminate enemy sabotage groups.
Aviation, artillery, and troops have engaged manpower and hardware of 21st, 22nd, 61st, 115th mechanised, 82nd air assault brigades, and the 1004th Security and Service Brigade close to Apanasovka, Borki, Byakhovo, Vishnyovka, Krasnooktyabrskoye, Kruglenkoye, Lyubimovka, Martynovka, Novoivanovka, Novaya Sorochina, Plekhovo, Cherkasskoye Porechnoye, Russkoye Porechnoye, Sverdlikovo, and Snagost.
Operational-Tactical Aviation has struck areas where reserves of 21st, 22nd, 41st mechanised, 17th tank, 80th, and 95th air assault brigades of the Armed Forces of Ukraine, the 1st National Guard Brigade as well as 101st, 103rd, 107th, 119th, and 129th territorial defence brigades have been concentrated near Belopolye, Glukhov, Kiyanitsa, Obody, Svessa, Sosnovka, Sumy, Shalimovka, Shalygino, and Esman.
Over the past 24 hours, the AFU losses were up to 400 troops and 18 units of hardware, including one tank, three armoured personnel carriers, 14 armoured fighting vehicles, three artillery guns, three mortars, one electronic warfare station, and seven motor vehicles.
Since the beginning of hostilities in Kursk region, the AFU losses were over 8,200 troops, 76 tanks, 36 infantry fighting vehicles, 67 armoured personnel carriers, 521 armoured fighting vehicles, 242 motor vehicles, 56 artillery guns, 16 multiple-launch rocket system launchers, including four HIMARS MLRS and two U.S.-made MLRSs, five SAM launchers, 12 electronic warfare stations, one counter-battery radar, one air defence radar, five engineering vehicles, including two counterobstacle vehicles and one UR-77 mine clearing vehicle.
The operation to neutralise the AFU units is in progress.




