CURTAIN RAISER FOR HIM- DRONE-A-THON-2 & HIMTECH-2024: SETTING THE COURSE FOR DEMONSTRATION OF DRONES IN HIGH ATTITUDE AREAS
India - Press Information Bureau
_
20240905
https://www.globalsecurity.org/wmd/library/news/india/2024/india-240904-india-pib02.htm
India - Press Information Bureau
Ministry of Defence
Posted On: 04 SEP 2024 3:09PM by PIB Delhi
Indian Army unveiled two landmark events; 'HIM-DRONE-A-THON 2' and 'HIMTECH-2024' landmark events designed to harness military technologies for operations in high altitude areas. Envisaged as an opportunity to the Indian Drone Industry to showcase the capabilities of their drone solutions for high altitude areas, HIM-DRONE-A-THON 2 will take place at Wari La, near Leh on 17-18 September 2024. It will be followed by HIMTECH-2024 on 20-21 September 2024, an event conceptualised to discuss, demonstrate and discover new avenues for development, incorporation and cross pollination of technology, ideas and innovations with focus on harnessing military technologies for high attitude areas.
Major General CS Mann, Additional Director General of the Army Design Bureau highlighted that the Indian Army is deployed from icy heights of the Siachen Glacier to the rugged Himalayas where its soldiers face unparalleled adversities daily. For drone operations, rarified atmosphere results in reduced lift and degraded engine performance which are further accentuated by extreme cold temperatures and high wind speeds. These conditions are unique for Indian Army and demand systems that can adequately perform in these conditions. Since such altitude battlefields are not prevalent anywhere else, tailormade, indigenous solutions are the way forward. If the indigenous industry succeeds here, it also opens vistas for them to international arena and establish India as a credible drone manufacturing hub.
HIM-DRONE-A-THON-2 will focus on drone solutions for Indian Army for high altitude areas. The event is planned to be conducted under actual terrain and environmental conditions at altitude of 4000-5000 meters. The event is open to all indigenous drone manufactures and invites their participation for demonstration of Surveillance drones, Loitering munitions, Logistics Drones, Swarm Drones and drones with specific capabilities / role / payloads ie; Electronic Warfare, Synthetic Aperture Radar, Communication Intelligence and Electronic Intelligence. As of now more than 25 Drone manufacturing firms have registered for participation in the event. All the firms will be competing in a multifaceted competition at super high-altitude area for proving their suitability and capabilities.
HIMTECH 2024 is being held for the first time in Leh, to highlight and focus on development of technology and system for meeting operational requirements along the Northern Borders. The event being held in collaboration with FICCI will not only showcase industry partners and new generation equipment developed for high altitude areas but will also project Leh as the new business destination for new technology developers, industry and academia. The event will provide a platform to Indian Industries to showcase a wide range of the equipment and technologies comprising modern unmanned systems, all terrain mobility solutions, autonomous systems and advanced soldier systems.
The technology being demonstrated by the Indigenous Drone Industry, can also be harnessed for civilian use especially in high altitude areas and areas akin to terrain/ atmospheric conditions in Union Territory of Ladkah.
****
SC
(Release ID: 2051715)



