Kazakh President Announces Date For Controversial Nuclear Plant Project
_
_
20240903
https://www.globalsecurity.org/wmd/library/news/kazakh/2024/kazakh-240902-rferl01.htm

By RFE/RL's Kazakh Service September 02, 2024
Kazakhstan will hold a referendum on October 6 on whether to build a nuclear power plant, President Qasym-Zhomart Toqaev announced on September 2.
Toqaev has argued the project is needed to diversify energy sources in Kazakhstan, which has abundant oil and natural gas reserves. It is also the world's leading producer of uranium, used to fuel nuclear power plants.
Kazakh Energy Minister Almassadam Satkaliyev has said the construction of a nuclear power plant in Kazakhstan is the only way to meet a rising domestic power demand and carbon-neutrality goals.
Currently, Kazakhstan gets about 80 percent of its energy from coal-fired plants and another 15 percent is generated by hydropower, while the rest comes from renewable energy resources.
A single Russian nuclear power reactor operated from 1972 to 1999, generating electricity and desalinating water.
No exact site for the future nuclear power plant has been announced, although two have been mentioned as likely: at Ulken near Lake Balkash and at Kurchatov.
It's also unclear who would build the plant. In 2023, the Kazakh Energy Ministry said Russia's Rosatom was one of four contractors whose reactors were under consideration for the plant, with EDF of France, the China National Nuclear Corporation, and South Korea's Korea Hydro & Nuclear Power the other three.
The project has been met by much opposition. In recent weeks, several activists known for their stance against the nuclear power station's construction have been prevented from attending public debates on the issue.
Nuclear-power-related projects have been a controversial issue in Kazakhstan, where the environment was severely impacted by operations at the Soviet-era Semipalatinsk nuclear test site from 1949 to 1991 and the Baikonur spaceport, which is still being operated by Russia.

Source: https://www.rferl.org/a/kazakhstan-nuclear- toqaev-russia-china/33102429.html
Copyright (c) 2024. RFE/RL, Inc. Reprinted with the permission of Radio Free Europe/Radio Liberty, 1201 Connecticut Ave., N.W. Washington DC 20036.


