New artillery system: Practical testing completed
Swiss Government
_
20240904
https://www.globalsecurity.org/military/library/news/2024/09/mil-240903-ch02.htm
Swiss Government
Bern, 03.09.2024 -- The Federal Office for Defence   Procurement armasuisse has completed the practical testing of the three   systems on the shortlist as part of the evaluation of a new artillery   system. The tests took place in cooperation with industry and the Armed   Forces between January 2023 and June 2024 in Switzerland and abroad. It   was checked whether the systems meet the requirements. The results and   findings will be evaluated over the next few months and summarised in an   evaluation report.
After the pre-evaluation, the Federal Office for   Defence Procurement armasuisse decided to evaluate three systems. These   are the systems: Archer mobile howitzer from the company BAE Systems   Bofors from Sweden and, from the company KNDS Germany the systems RCH   155 with Boxer carrier platform and AGM Artillery Gun Module with   Piranha carrier platform.
Since   the beginning of 2023, the three shortlist systems have been tested and   analysed in depth, together with industry and the Armed Forces in   practical trials in Switzerland and abroad. Logistical clarifications,   technical shooting trials, mobility trials and troop trials were carried   out with each of the three prototypes from industry. In particular, it   was checked whether the systems meet the project goals and the military   requirements, whether suitability for use in a militia army is the case   and whether the performance specified by the manufacturers is achieved.   In   parallel to the practical testing, official requests for offers are in   progress, which pertain to contractual and business aspects as well as   life cycle costs. The results and findings obtained from the practical   tests will be evaluated over the next few months and summarised in an   evaluation report. Together with the offers received, it forms the basis   for the subsequent type decision. Procurement is to be requested in one   of the next Armed Forces Dispatches.
The   self-propelled howitzers M109 currently in use are from the 1960s and   will have reached the end of their useful life in the next few years.   They therefore need to be replaced with a new, modern artillery system.   The project "Artillery weapons platform and weapons 2026" (Art WPWM 26)   aims to ensure the maintenance and further development of the ability of   indirect fire at medium operating distance with increased range,   precision and mobility.




