World leaders renew calls for Gaza ceasefire-hostage deal after six hostage bodies recovered
JERUSALEM POST STAFF
SEPTEMBER 1, 2024 13:53
20240901
https://www.jpost.com/breaking-news/article-817263
In the wake of the IDF’s discovery of the bodies of six hostages in Gaza, including American citizen Hersh Goldberg-Polin, UN Secretary-General Antonio Guterres called for the unconditional release of hostages in Hamas captivity and an end to the war in Gaza.“I will never forget my meeting last October with the parents of Hersh Goldberg-Polin and other hostage families,” Guterres wrote on X. “Today’s tragic news is a devastating reminder of the need for the unconditional release of all hostages and an end to the nightmare of war in Gaza.”Ireland calls for a ceasefireIreland’s embassy to Israel, while sharing the condolences of Irish Foreign Affairs Minister Micheál Martin, wrote in Hebrew, “Deep sadness following the killing of the six Israeli hostages held by Hamas. We call again for the immediate and unconditional release of all the abductees and a ceasefire. Even in this dark hour, I urge all involved to increase efforts to reach an agreement that will allow this.”  Martin’s statement, which he gave on behalf of the people of Ireland, renewed calls for a ceasefire-hostage deal.“The taking and holding of hostages is reprehensible and unconscionable in any and all circumstances,” Martin said, while adding that it was “past time for killing and suffering on all sides to end.”Martin concluded that the remaining hostages needed to be released, a ceasefire in the war must be reached, and a massive supply of aid should reach the Gaza Strip.Hersh Goldberg-Polin, Eden Yerushalmi, Carmel Gat, Almog Sarusi, Alexander Lobanov, and Ori Danino. (credit: Hostages and Missing Families Forum/Screenshot via X)UK Prime Minister Keir Starmer expressed his condolences UK Prime Minister Keir Starmer also expressed his condolences.“I am completely shocked at the horrific and senseless killing of six hostages in Gaza by Hamas. My thoughts are with their loved ones at this awful time. Hamas must release all the hostages now, and a ceasefire deal must be agreed by all sides immediately to end the suffering,” the prime minister stated on his official X account on Sunday.
Ireland’s embassy to Israel, while sharing the condolences of Irish Foreign Affairs Minister Micheál Martin, wrote in Hebrew, “Deep sadness following the killing of the six Israeli hostages held by Hamas. We call again for the immediate and unconditional release of all the abductees and a ceasefire. Even in this dark hour, I urge all involved to increase efforts to reach an agreement that will allow this.”  Martin’s statement, which he gave on behalf of the people of Ireland, renewed calls for a ceasefire-hostage deal.“The taking and holding of hostages is reprehensible and unconscionable in any and all circumstances,” Martin said, while adding that it was “past time for killing and suffering on all sides to end.”Martin concluded that the remaining hostages needed to be released, a ceasefire in the war must be reached, and a massive supply of aid should reach the Gaza Strip.Hersh Goldberg-Polin, Eden Yerushalmi, Carmel Gat, Almog Sarusi, Alexander Lobanov, and Ori Danino. (credit: Hostages and Missing Families Forum/Screenshot via X)UK Prime Minister Keir Starmer expressed his condolences UK Prime Minister Keir Starmer also expressed his condolences.“I am completely shocked at the horrific and senseless killing of six hostages in Gaza by Hamas. My thoughts are with their loved ones at this awful time. Hamas must release all the hostages now, and a ceasefire deal must be agreed by all sides immediately to end the suffering,” the prime minister stated on his official X account on Sunday.
UK Prime Minister Keir Starmer also expressed his condolences.“I am completely shocked at the horrific and senseless killing of six hostages in Gaza by Hamas. My thoughts are with their loved ones at this awful time. Hamas must release all the hostages now, and a ceasefire deal must be agreed by all sides immediately to end the suffering,” the prime minister stated on his official X account on Sunday.
