'Will hang distorted photos of women': TMC leader's warning after Mamata Banerjee's call for 'hissing protest'
India Blooms News Service
02 Sep 2024, 02:48 pm
20240902
https://www.indiablooms.com/news-details/N/99520/-will-hang-distorted-photos-of-women-tmc-leader-s-warning-after-mamata-banerjee-s-call-for-hissing-protest.html
Days ago, Mamata Banerjee, who heads the TMC, had withdrawn her 2011 slogan giving a call for change without revenge and asked her cadres to respond befittingly and "hiss like a snake" (she used the word phonsh in Bengali) to keep opponents at check.
In a supposed fallout of the remark, Atish Sarkar said, "Mamata Banerjee has asked us to protest. If we protest, we will hang pictures malingering the characters of women of your family at your home. You won't be able to take those posters down."
"I am saying this with full responsibility. Such days are approaching. We will hang distorted pictures of women of your family on the walls of your houses for maligning and character assassinating Mamata Banerjee on Facebook," he added with several women leaders of TMC sitting behind him tight-lipped.
Amid criticism, TMC MP Kakali Ghosh Dastidar said Sarkar has been suspended from the party for a year over his remark.
Opposition BJP state president Sukanta Majumdar reacting to the speech said: "The poor taste and uneducated statement of these TMC leaders is dangerous not only for the state but also for the society. Women of West Bengal will give a befitting reply to it. The end of TMC rule is certain."
রাজ্যের মহিলাদের সম্পর্কে এদের বক্তব্যে যেভাবে অতি নিম্ন রুচি, কুশিক্ষার পরিচয় উঠে আসছে সেটা রাজ্যের জন্য শুধু নয় সমাজের পক্ষেও বিপজ্জনক।  বাংলার মাতৃশক্তি এর ঠিক জবাব দেবেন। এ রাজ্য থেকে তৃণমূলের বিসর্জন নিশ্চিত।
What did Mamata Banerjee say?
Speaking at a mega rally of her Trinamool Congress' youth wing, Mamata referred to her slogan against the then Left government in 2011 when she asked people to bring in a political change but no revenge.
Thirteen years later, Mamata, a senior politician, has perhaps deflected from her stance but with caution.
"I have been humiliated a lot but never returned vengeance. We wanted change but no revenge. But now I ask you to counter in a manner it is required as per your understanding. I don't want violence but counter as and when required. Unmask all who are conspiring against us," Mamata said in downtown Kolkata. She used the Bengali word "phonsh" meaning the hissing sound of snake to scare away threats.
Relaunching her outsider-insider debate that ruled the 2021 assembly elections which TMC won by a mammoth margin, the Chief Minister warned people, who have come from other states and resided in West Bengal, of a counter if they resort to violence against police.
In the backdrop of the protesters-police clash during Nabanna march on Tuesday, Mamata said, "People, who are outsiders but staying in Bengal, should be ready for a counter-attack if they hurt police conspiring with the BJP. I don't want anyone to be attacked. I do not want any death or loss. But I won't allow people to stay in Bengal and torture the state.
"There is no reason for considering me as weak. Sometimes, it is better to be tolerant. But no one knows what I can do if my tolerance limit crosses because I am the product of the movement. I am born with movement and will die with it. Challenge me if you can."
Mamata Banerjee's clarification
In an X post, the Chief Minister issued a clarification saying, "I have spoken against BJP. I have spoken against them because, with the support of the Government of India, they are threatening the democracy in our State and trying to create anarchy. With support from Centre, they are trying to create lawlessness and I have raised my voice against them.
"I also clarify that the phrase ("phonsh kara") that I had used in my speech yesterday is a quote from Sri Ramakrishna Paramahansa Deva. The legendary saint had said that occasionally there is need to raise one's voice. When there are crimes and criminal offences, voice of protest has to be raised. My speech on that point was a direct allusion to the great Ramakrishnite saying."
I detect a malicious disinformation campaign in some print, electronic and digital media which has been unleashed with reference to a speech that I made in our students' programme yesterday.  Let me most emphatically clarify that I have not uttered a single word against the…

