RG Kar protests: People set to claim the night again today before key SC hearing on doctor's rape-murder
India Blooms News Service
04 Sep 2024, 12:35 pm
20240904
https://www.indiablooms.com/news-details/N/99575/rg-kar-protests-people-set-to-claim-the-night-again-today-before-key-sc-hearing-on-doctor-s-rape-murder.html
On the intervening night of August 14 and 15, hundreds of thousands of people came out on streets across the state demanding justice for the victim and to denounce the cover-up attempt.
The West Bengal junior doctors, who are on ceasework since the crime was discovered on August 9, have urged all citizens of the country to come out on streets in their own locality and form a human chain from 7 pm to 10 pm.
They have also appealed to people to turn off their lights at home and light a candle in solidarity for an hour from 9 pm, on the night before the crucial Supreme Court hearing on the case.
Image by Avishek Mitra/IBNS
The Supreme Court will on Thursday resume its hearing on the case that has sent shockwaves across the country, bringing the Mamata Banerjee government under the scanner over police's alleged cover-up of the incident.
The Central Bureau of Investigation, which is now in charge of the probe, will submit the status report to the court on Thursday.
In the last two hearings, the top court lashed out at the state administration for its lapses, urged junior doctors to resume work and restrained police from any action on peaceful protests.
The CBI on Monday arrested ex-RG Kar Medical College principal Dr. Sandip Ghosh in connection with a corruption case linked to the state-run hospital. The arrest is, however, not related to the rape-murder incident, which took place on the intervening night of August 8 and 9.
The only arrest in the crime was made so far by the Kolkata Police, which swiftly nabbed civic volunteer Sanjoy Roy. Sanjoy has denied committing the murder.
Junior doctors and protesters suspect the crime was committed by more than one and an attempt to tamper with evidence and cover up the crime is at play right from the beginning.
Image by Avishek Mitra/IBNS
The Mamata Banerjee government is now in a crisis as people's protests roil the state challenging the state administration, which was marred by political violence and rampant corruption cases for more than a decade now.
The administration's swift run for the last rites of the victim and demolition work near the crime scene have raised some uncomfortable questions for the state administration, which is helmed by Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee who holds both the police and health portfolios.

