The Second Thematic Conference in the Wake of the Peace Summit Was Held on the Food Security
President of Ukraine
_
20240905
https://www.globalsecurity.org/wmd/library/news/ukraine/2024/09/ukraine-240904-ukraine-president01.htm
President of Ukraine
4 September 2024 - 21:55
Head of the Presidential Office Andriy Yermak took part in a thematic conference on the implementation of the agreements reached at the Global Peace Summit; the conference was dedicated to the implementation of the Food Security point of the Peace Formula. It was held online.
The event was attended by representatives of 75 partner countries and international organizations from different regions of the world. The Ukrainian side was also represented by First Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of Economy Yuliia Svyrydenko, Deputy Heads of the Presidential Office Ihor Zhovkva and Mykola Tochytskyi, and Advisor to the Head of the Presidential Office Oleksandr Bevz.
Opening the event, Andriy Yermak noted that Russian aggression against Ukraine aggravates the food crisis in the world, where already every eleventh person on the planet is malnourished. However, even under these circumstances, Ukraine remains one of the leading guarantors of global food security.
"Global food security depends on the uninterrupted production, storage and supply of food. Therefore, Ukraine expects that this meeting will launch a series of very concrete steps aimed at ensuring the unimpeded supply of Ukrainian agricultural products to the countries concerned," he said.
First of all, this means ensuring the freedom and safety of commercial navigation in the Black Sea and the Sea of Azov basins, in particular, demining and mine countermeasures along the trade routes, restoration of Ukrainian port infrastructure and its protection by air defense systems.
It is also necessary to continue supporting the "Grain from Ukraine" program and to reduce vulnerabilities in the logistics of Ukraine's food export system. There is a need to restore and increase the production capacity of the Ukrainian agricultural sector, in particular by de-mining farmland.
First Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of Economy Yuliia Svyrydenko spoke in detail about the situation of Ukrainian agricultural production and supply, including a significant recovery of exports from our state to countries in need.
In 2023-2024, Ukraine exported 69.86 million tons of grain, oilseeds and oil. In particular, the country managed to increase wheat exports to Africa by 41% and sunflower oil exports by 153%. In total, Ukraine exported nearly 70 million tons of grains, oilseeds, and oil. This was achieved primarily due to the restoration of logistics through the ports of the Odesa region.
In addition, thanks to the support of partners from around the world, Ukraine has been able to increase the pace of landmine clearance. Our country looks forward to further steps in support of these efforts.
Principal Deputy National Security Advisor to the U.S. President Jon Finer, who personally attended the conference in Kyiv, noted that the United States continues to support Ukraine on its path to restoring a just, lasting peace, and ending this war.
He emphasized that Russia's aggression against Ukraine has affected not only the lives of Ukrainians, but also people around the world, particularly through food security challenges.
"Thanks to the courage and resilience of Ukrainians, as well as the support of many partner countries, Ukraine was able to protect its exports and push back the Russian Black Sea Fleet," he emphasized.
This thematic conference was already the second of those planned in the wake of the first Peace Summit. The first, which focused on energy security, was held on August 22. Preparations are also underway for the third, which will address the release of all captured and deported Ukrainians. These events are aimed at developing a comprehensive peace plan initiated by President of Ukraine Volodymyr Zelenskyy.
The conference resulted in a Joint Communiqué, the text of which is provided below.


