Japan - AEGIS Class Destroyer Follow-On Technical Support
_
_
20240904
https://www.globalsecurity.org/wmd/library/news/japan/2024/japan-240903-dsca01.htm
Media/Public Contact: pm-cpa@state.gov  Transmittal No: 24-71
WASHINGTON, September 3, 2024 -- The State Department has made a determination approving a possible Foreign Military Sale to the Government of Japan of AEGIS Class Destroyer Follow-On Technical Support and related equipment for an estimated cost of $150 million. The Defense Security Cooperation Agency delivered the required certification notifying Congress of this possible sale today.
The Government of Japan has requested to buy follow-on technical support of AEGIS Class Destroyers, which will include sustainment support and services; AEGIS computer software updates; system integration and testing; in-country and on-site engineering support; familiarization; sustainment; all necessary emergent support engineering and technical support services; operational support; system overhauls; system upgrades; on-the-job practical operations and maintenance; combat systems integration; development, testing, and installation of program patches and adaptation data and annual service agreements; technical inquiries by the purchaser; operation; integration; maintenance; field service engineering; problem investigation; technical assistance; solutions to the technical problems arising from post production and testing capabilities; U.S. Government and contractor technical assistance; and other related elements of logistics and program support. The estimated total cost is $150 million.
This proposed sale will support the foreign policy goals and national security objectives of the United States by improving the security of a major ally that is a force for political stability and economic progress in the Indo-Pacific region.
The proposed sale is critical to ensure the Japan Maritime Self Defense Force's (JMSDF) AEGIS Destroyer fleet and computer program test sites remain ready to provide capabilities in the defense of Japan. Specifically, the requested AEGIS computer program maintenance services will provide JMSDF with software patches and adaptation data support that are vital to the effective and safe operations of the AEGIS Combat Systems (ACS) suite. The in-country engineering and emergent support will assist JMSDF to address any malfunctions or faults that may arise with the ACS suite. Japan will have no difficulty absorbing these services and support into its armed forces.
The proposed sale of this equipment and support will not alter the basic military balance in the region.
The principal contractor will be Lockheed Martin Corporation, located in Moorestown, NJ. There are no known offset agreements proposed in connection with this potential sale.
Implementation of this proposed sale will require the temporary assignment of five U.S. Government and two contractor representatives to Japan.
There will be no adverse impact on U.S. defense readiness as a result of this proposed sale.
The description and dollar value are for the highest estimated quantity and dollar value based on initial requirements. Actual dollar value will be lower depending on final requirements, budget authority, and signed sales agreement(s), if and when concluded.
All questions regarding this proposed Foreign Military Sale should be directed to the State Department's Bureau of Political Military-Affairs, Office of Congressional and Public Affairs, pm-cpa@state.gov.



