Foreign Minister Sergey Lavrov's answers to questions from the Moscow. Kremlin. Putin. programme, Vladivostok, September 4, 2024
_
_
20240905
https://www.globalsecurity.org/wmd/library/news/ukraine/2024/09/ukraine-240904-russia-mfa01.htm
4 September 2024 14:54  1622-04-09-2024
Question: So far, reports are coming in only from Reuters, but often such media leaks are eventually confirmed. The United States allegedly intends to supply missiles with a range of 300−900 kilometres for F-16 fighters. How could you comment on this?
Sergey Lavrov: I am tired of commenting, and nothing surprises me anymore. The Americans have already passed the "threshold" they set themselves. They are being egged on to it. Vladimir Zelensky can see this, and he is taking advantage of the situation.
However, they should understand that one should not joke about our "red lines." They know their location very well.
So far, the obsessive power struggle (when Democrats want to prove themselves "tougher" than the Republicans or vice versa) is leading towards an escalation. I am convinced that there are reasonable people exercising certain sway in the United States. I hope that the interests of the United States will be taken into account.
I would like to note a statement by National Security Council Coordinator for Strategic Communications John Kirby who said that one should be very careful about expanding support for Ukraine, so as not to start World War III because one would feel sorry for Europe. In effect, their genetic code tells them that no one will dare touch them. This destroys all principles on which Soviet-US agreements on strategic stability hinged; these agreements were later reaffirmed and developed with the Russian Federation. For some reason, their feeling of mutual deterrence is becoming eroded, and this is dangerous.
Question: What are they counting on then? They will supply weapons all the time. Certainly, they should realise that it is impossible to defeat Russia.
Sergey Lavrov: You should ask them.
I do not know what they are counting on. They believe that this "tough" stand on Russia is another argument for obtaining extra votes in the context of the logic of American exceptionalism. Such logic implies that they can do what they want, and no one will dare to offend them. This is what we are seeing today. However, no one, including me, knows what's on their mind.
You should go to New York City, or tell your colleagues to ask these questions.



