Israeli forces destroyed over 70% of Jenin's streets, infrastructure, says municipality
Iran Press TV
_
20240902
https://www.globalsecurity.org/military/library/news/2024/09/mil-240901-presstv08.htm

Iran Press TV
Sunday, 01 September 2024 9:57 AM
Israeli forces have destroyed more than half of the streets and essential infrastructure in the occupied northern West Bank city of Jenin during their ongoing offensive, leaving residents in dire conditions, according to the local municipality in Jenin.
Bashir Matahen, Director of Public Relations and Media at the Jenin Municipality, told the official Palestinian news agency WAFA on Saturday that Israeli troops have completely demolished more than 70% of the city's streets to a depth of nearly one to 1.5 meters.
The demolition of roads, Matahen said, has destroyed water and sewage networks, as well as communication and electricity outages in many districts.
He added that water supplies have been cut off for 80% of Jenin and the entire refugee camp due to the destruction of networks and that the technical teams have been unable to reach these networks to redirect them to other areas.
"The municipality teams are unable to access the damaged network areas despite several attempts... They were subjected to gunfire from the occupying (Israeli) forces," Matahen noted.
He also pointed out that the Israeli forces "have burned parts of the central vegetable market in the city, and initial estimates indicate extensive damage."
"Israeli actions have also led to the destruction of hundreds of houses and vehicles."
Jenin Government Hospital halts dialysis services amid Israeli aggression
Moreover, the Jenin Government Hospital announced on Sunday the suspension of its dialysis services due to ongoing disruptions in essential supplies caused by the Israeli military offensive in the city.
In a press statement, the hospital explained that it had to take the decision because of a prolonged power outage.
Israeli forces have damaged the electricity supply line to the medical facility, and the backup generators have been running continuously for the past four days.
This came a day after the Israeli military blocked water trucks from reaching the hospital.
According to the Palestinian news agency WAFA, Israeli forces stopped water tankers from the Jenin Civil Defense from reaching the medical center.
Dargham Zakarneh, Director of the Jenin Civil Defense Center, said Israeli soldiers stationed at Jenin Government Hospital's gate blocked the water delivery.
He highlighted that the hospital's kidney dialysis department requires a daily 100 cubic meters of water to operate.
On Wednesday, the Israeli army launched its largest military offensive since 2002 in the cities of Tulkarm and Jenin, as well as in the al-Far'a refugee camp near Tubas, killing 22 Palestinians, according to Palestinian figures.
Since Israel unleashed a war on the besieged Gaza Strip in early October 2023, casualties have been rising in the West Bank as a result of intensified near-daily Israeli raids into villages and cities in the occupied territories.
According to Palestinian health officials, at least 675 Palestinians have been killed and nearly 5,400 others injured by Israeli forces in the West Bank since the outbreak of the war on Gaza.
At least 40,691 Palestinians, most of them women and children, have also been killed in the Israeli genocidal war against the Gaza Strip during the past 11 months.



