PBBM orders peaceful resolution of maritime dispute - NMC
Philippine News Agency
_
20240902
https://www.globalsecurity.org/military/library/news/2024/09/mil-240901-pna01.htm
Philippine News Agency
By Ruth Abbey Gita-Carlos  September 1, 2024, 7:53 am
MANILA -- President Ferdinand R. Marcos Jr. on Saturday maintained his stance to pursue "peaceful" resolution of disputes in the contested waters, including the West Philippine Sea (WPS), despite China's latest aggression in Escoda Shoal.
"As directed by the President, the Philippines will fully utilize and continue to pursue diplomatic channels and mechanisms under the rules-based international order and pursue the peaceful resolution of disputes," the National Maritime Council (NMC) said in a statement.
The NMC, nevertheless, assured the public that the Philippines "will not succumb to acts of harassment and aggressive behavior."
It said the Philippines would continue upholding its sovereignty, sovereign rights, and jurisdiction in the WPS.
"China's latest actions are uncalled for as the Philippine vessel was engaged in a peaceful and lawful patrol within its own maritime jurisdiction," the NMC said.
In a press briefing, Philippine Coast Guard (PCG) spokesperson for the West Philippine Sea Commodore Jay Tarriela said Chinese Coast Guard (CCG) vessel 5205 "deliberately" rammed PCG vessel BRP Teresa Magbanua (MRRV-9701) thrice in the vicinity of Escoda Shoal.
The CCG vessel's aggressive maneuver endangered lives and caused significant damage to BRP Teresa Magbanua while conducting routine patrols within the Philippines' exclusive economic zone.
The NMC asserted that the presence of BRP Teresa Magbanua in Escoda Shoal, which lies just 75 nautical miles from the Philippine baselines, is "legal and is in accordance with international law, the United Nations Convention on the Law of the Sea (UNCLOS) and the 2016 Arbitral Award."
The NMC called on the CCG to "exercise restraint and prioritize the safety of vessels at sea and aircraft within our airspace".
"The Philippines will continue its sovereign operations in its maritime zones. The BRP Teresa Magbanua will remain and maintain its operations in the West Philippine Sea," it said, adding that the Philippines would continue carrying out its routine maritime activities, protecting its territory and maritime zones, and defending its waters against environmental degradation and other illegal activities.
Stronger measure
House of Representatives Speaker Martin Romualdez backed the commitment to peace but urged stronger measures to protect the country and its sovereignty.
"The Philippines remains committed to dialogue and a peaceful resolution, but we also stand ready to safeguard our sovereignty. We call for respect, and we are determined to meet any challenges that may arise," he said in a news release.
It is about time that stronger measures must be considered, he said.
"We should enhance our presence in the [WPS], reinforce our alliances, and ensure that our capabilities are sufficient to protect our sovereign rights," he added.
He also urged all Filipinos to stand for the country, its future and sovereignty.
At the same time, Romualdez appealed to the international community to hold China accountable for its actions, urging the Department of Foreign Affairs to escalate the issue to the highest levels of global diplomacy. (With a report from Zaldy De Layola/PNA)


