Foreign Ministry Spokesperson Mao Ning's Regular Press Conference on September 3, 2024
Ministry of Foreign Affairs, the People's Republic of China
_
20240904
https://www.globalsecurity.org/wmd/library/news/china/2024/09/china-240903-prc-mofab01.htm

Ministry of Foreign Affairs, the People's Republic of China
Updated: September 03, 2024 17:13
At the invitation of Premier Li Qiang of the State Council, Spanish Prime Minister Pedro Sánchez will pay an official visit to China from September 8 to 11.
At the invitation of the government of the Russian Federation and the government of Mongolia, Vice President Han Zheng will attend the ninth Eastern Economic Forum in Vladivostok, Russia and visit Mongolia from September 4 to 8.
CCTV: You just announced Spanish Prime Minister Pedro Sánchez's upcoming visit to China. Could you share with us the program and your expectation of the visit? How does China view the current China-Spain relations?
Mao Ning: During Prime Minister Pedro Sánchez's visit, President Xi Jinping will meet with him, and Premier Li Qiang and Chairman Zhao Leji will have talks and meet with him respectively. The two sides will exchange their views on bilateral relations and issues of mutual interest. During the visit, the two sides will hold the China-Spain Forum, the China-Spain Business Advisory Council Meeting, and the China-Spain Business Forum, among other events.
China and Spain are comprehensive strategic partners. Since the establishment of diplomatic ties over half a century ago, the two sides have carried forward traditional friendship, deepened mutually beneficial and open cooperation, and maintained sound and steady growth of relations, which has benefited both sides. China hopes that through this visit, the two sides will further advance bilateral relations, deepen mutual trust through high-level exchanges, address global challenges through high-quality cooperation, and add new dimensions to China-Spain comprehensive strategic partnership.
People's Daily: To follow up on your announcement that Vice President Han Zheng will attend the ninth Eastern Economic Forum in Russia and visit Mongolia, can you tell us what China hopes to achieve through this trip?
Mao Ning: Under the strategic guidance of President Xi Jinping and President Putin, China-Russia relations have been moving forward on a high level with steady progress of cooperation in various fields. The Eastern Economic Forum is an important platform for countries in the Asia-Pacific to pool consensus on cooperation and discuss ways to achieve development and rejuvenation together. President Xi Jinping attended the Eastern Economic Forum twice in 2018 and 2021 upon invitation and delivered important speeches. In his remarks, President Xi elaborated on China's proposals for growing China-Russia relations, participating in Far East development, and advancing regional cooperation, which were warmly received.
Vice President Han Zheng will attend events under the framework of the Eastern Economic Forum in Russia and meet Russian leaders. China hopes to work with Russia through this visit to deliver on the common understandings between the leaders of the two countries, deepen Northeast China-Russian Far East cooperation, and jointly advance the development of the region. 
China and Mongolia are friendly neighbors sharing mountains and rivers. This year marks the 75th anniversary of diplomatic ties between China and Mongolia, the 30th anniversary of the China-Mongolia Treaty of Friendly Relations and Cooperation and the 10th anniversary of the China-Mongolia comprehensive strategic partnership. During his visit to Mongolia, Vice President Han Zheng will have in-depth communication with Mongolian leaders on China-Mongolia relations and issues of mutual interest. China stands ready to work with Mongolia to follow the guidance of the important common understandings between the heads of state of both countries, enhance friendship and mutual trust, deepen mutually beneficial cooperation and advance the sustained, steady and sound growth of China-Mongolia relations.
Reuters: China made a pledge at the 2021 FOCAC in Dakar to buy US$ 300 billion of African goods and we understand that that has not been entirely fulfilled. What more can China do to boost its buying from the continent? At this year's FOCAC, how is China positioning itself to attract commitment from African economies to buy more Chinese goods?
Mao Ning: I am not sure where your numbers come from. China attaches great importance to the implementation of the outcomes of FOCAC. According to China's Ministry of Commerce, from December 2021 to July 2024, China's imports from Africa reached US$ 305.9 billion, hitting the targets ahead of schedule. China has been Africa's top trading partner for 15 consecutive years. The 2024 FOCAC Beijing Summit will open soon. China will actively implement the important decisions of the third Plenary Session of the 20th CPC Central Committee, and share development opportunities created by Chinese modernization with the world. China will continue to observe the principles of sincerity, real results, amity and good faith which guide our policy toward Africa. We will continue to pursue the greater good and shared interests in our cooperation with Africa, expand institutional opening up to Africa and deepen cooperation on industrial and supply chains so as to bring the Chinese and African economies together, connect our development efforts and share our achievements together.
AFP: The New Zealand Intelligence Service describes China as a complex intelligence concern and its operations in New Zealand as complex and deceptive. How does China respond to these allegations by New Zealand?
Mao Ning: China always develops relations with other countries based on such principles as mutual respect and non-interference in each other's domestic affairs. We never interfere in any country's domestic affairs. We hope that New Zealand will view China in a rational and objective light, and create favorable conditions for the sound and steady growth of China-New Zealand relations.
Global Times: It's reported that Chairman of the US House "Select Committee on the CCP" John Moolenaar and several Representatives visited Japan recently. They claimed that the visit was to express support for the US-Japan alliance and discuss ways the US and Japan can work together to combat the "Chinese Communist Party's rising military, economic, and ideological aggression." And they urged the Japanese government to continue its work to push back on the "CCP's malign economic agenda." What is China's comment?
Mao Ning: The committee you mentioned has no credibility to speak of. Driven by a political agenda, the committee has long vilified China and the Communist Party of China. Relevant politicians' remarks are steeped in Cold War mentality and ideological bias, and meant to peddle the "China threat" narrative and encourage bloc confrontation. China firmly rejects this.
China has all along believed that cooperation between countries should be conducive to regional peace, stability and prosperity, and not target or even harm any third party's interests. Ganging up to form exclusive groupings is not what our world needs and will not gain support. China calls on US politicians to view China's development objectively and rationally, stop creating bloc confrontation, stop inciting a new Cold War, and refrain from fanning up tensions in the region.
The Paper: It is learned that the first Seminar on Capacity Building of Artificial Intelligence has opened in Shanghai. Can you share with us more information on this seminar?
Mao Ning: The rapid development and wide application of AI has made it an important driver of the new round of scientific and technological revolution and industrial transformation. As a major country in the field of AI, China attaches great importance to the development and application of AI, especially on strengthening the capacity building of the vast developing world. China is actively committed to helping fellow developing countries benefit from AI, and ensuring that countries of the Global South have the opportunity to be sufficiently involved in global AI governance. Against this backdrop, China submitted a draft resolution during this year's UN General Assembly entitled "Enhancing International Cooperation on Capacity-building of Artificial Intelligence", which was adopted by consensus and co-sponsored by 143 countries.
As a follow-up action of this resolution, China, together with the UN, is holding the Seminar on Capacity Building of Artificial Intelligence in Shanghai from September 3 to 6. Representatives from nearly 40 countries are participating in the seminar. UN Secretary-General António Guterres attended the opening ceremony. This seminar will help representatives from the Global South to gain a deep understanding of current progress and trends in AI development through expert lectures, exchanges, visits and surveys, thus bridging the AI divide. China will continue to provide the world with such public goods, take concrete steps to support developing countries in achieving development and use AI to benefit the entire humanity.
CCTV: On August 13, Israeli national security minister Ben Gvir led over 2,000 Jews into the Al-Aqsa Mosque in Jerusalem and said that Jews should be permitted to pray at the Al-Aqsa mosque compound (known to Jews as Temple Mount). The Israeli Prime Minister's Office later issued a statement indicating that there has been no change in Israel's policy of not allowing Jews to pray on the Temple Mount. Palestine and the League of Arab States condemned the act. What is your comment?
Mao Ning: With Gaza still mired in conflict and regional tensions running high, any new dispute concerning the issue of the holy sites of Jerusalem would simply fuel the flames. China is opposed to that and stands for respecting and maintaining the status quo of the holy sites in Jerusalem which stems from history. We urge parties, particularly Israel, to stay cool-headed and exercise restraint, avoid any provocation that might fuel antagonism, and prevent further escalation of tensions.
RIA Novosti: It's reported by Bloomberg that Türkiye has formally asked to join the BRICS group, according to people familiar with the matter. What's the Foreign Ministry's comments?
Mao Ning: BRICS is an important platform for cooperation among emerging markets and developing countries. China stands ready to work with other BRICS members to uphold the BRICS spirit of openness, inclusiveness and win-win cooperation and support more like-minded partners to join BRICS cooperation.


