"Türkiye and Egypt have a common stance on the Palestinian issue"
Presidency Of The Republic Of Turkey
_
20240905
https://www.globalsecurity.org/military/library/news/2024/09/mil-240904-turkey-president01.htm
Presidency Of The Republic Of Turkey
04.09.2024
Speaking at a joint press conference with President el-Sisi of Egypt, President Erdoğan said: "Türkiye and Egypt have a common stance on the Palestinian issue. The termination of the genocide that has been going on for 11 months, the immediate establishment of a permanent ceasefire, and the unimpeded flow of humanitarian aid continue to be our priorities."
President Recep Tayyip Erdoğan and President Abdel Fattah el-Sisi of   Egypt held a joint press conference following their meeting at the   Presidential Complex.
President Erdoğan said: "I would like to express the joy I take in   welcoming President of Egypt, Mr. Abdel Fattah el-Sisi, in our country.   On behalf of myself and my nation, I once again say 'welcome' in your   presence. During our visit to Cairo back in February, Mr. President   welcomed us in a very warm manner. My visit to Cairo marked a new   turning point in our relations. Since that day, we have maintained our   dialogue and cooperation at a maximum level. We have always maintained   close consultations on issues concerning our region. With the return   visit of my treasured brother, we are now further advancing our already   improving relations in all areas."
"WE HAVE A SHARED HISTORY OF CENTURIES AND BONDS OF CLOSE FRIENDSHIP WITH EGYPT"
Stressing that Türkiye and Egypt have a shared history of centuries   and bonds of close friendship, President Erdoğan stated: "Next year, we   will mark the centenary of the establishment of our diplomatic   relations. We are two ancient countries that served as the cradle of   civilizations that shaped the history of humanity. We constantly   strengthen the bridge and multidimensional ties between our countries   through joint efforts. We are pleased to see the fruits of our   efforts."
President Erdoğan continued: "During our talks with Mr. el-Sisi in   Cairo, we had taken a decision to restructure our High-Level Strategic   Cooperation Council. Today, we held the first meeting of this mechanism.   With the joint declaration, we have reaffirmed our will to advance our   cooperation in all areas, including industry, trade, defense,   healthcare, environment and energy. Trade and economy constitute the   strongest aspects of our cooperation."
Noting that Türkiye has been among Egypt's top five trade partners   over the past decade, President Erdoğan said: "We are decisively making   progress toward our goal of boosting our trade volume to $15 billion   within the next five years. Our businesspeople make significant   contributions to Egypt's economy with the investments worth nearly $3   billion. We encourage our entrepreneurs to further increase their   investments and also invite Egyptian investors to Türkiye."
"TÜRKİYE'S AND EGYPT'S CONTRIBUTIONS TO REGIONAL PEACE ARE OF VITAL IMPORTANCE"
Türkiye is willing to expand its cooperation with Egypt in energy,   particularly natural gas and nuclear energy, stressed President Erdoğan.   "The brotherly Egyptian people take great interest in the Turkish   culture and language. We continue our efforts to further strengthen our   cultural and social ties. I believe the positive momentum in our   relations will also be reflected in tourism."
Describing Türkiye's and Egypt's contributions to regional peace as   vital, President Erdoğan said: "During our meeting, we have agreed on   holding consultations on a regular basis for the settlement of regional   issues, first and foremost Gaza. The latest situation in Palestine was   the epicenter of our meeting. Türkiye and Egypt have a common stance on   the Palestinian issue. The termination of the genocide that has been   going on for 11 months, the immediate establishment of a permanent   ceasefire, and the unimpeded flow of humanitarian aid continue to be our   priorities."
"ISRAEL AND ITS BACKERS ARE RESPONSIBLE FOR EVERY INNOCENT PERSON WHO DIES FROM HUNGER, THIRST, OR LACK OF MEDICINE"
"To date, 32 percent of the total aid dispatched to Gaze have   originated from Türkiye. I offer my gratitude to the Egyptian   authorities, particularly the Egyptian Red Crescent, who cooperate with   the Turkish Red Crescent and AFAD for the delivery of aid," President   Erdoğan stated.
Pointing out that by blocking the delivery of humanitarian aid to   those in need, Israel is adding to the crimes it commits, President   Erdoğan said: "Having been unable to break the resistance by dropping   thousands of tons of bombs, the Israeli administration is now trying to   the break the resistance by condemning the Palestinian people to hunger   and thirst. Israel and its backers are responsible for every innocent   person who dies from hunger, thirst, or lack of medicine."
Drawing attention to Egypt's mediating role in the negotiations for   the cessation of the conflicts, President Erdoğan said: "As you know,   Egypt has been mediating the negotiations along with Qatar and the U.S.   We, for our part, have been supporting this process through our Foreign   Ministry and National Intelligence Organization (MİT). Israel's stance   remains both uncompromising and obstructive. By martyring an   interlocutor for negotiation, Israel has demonstrated its mentality. I   want to make it clear that we reject Netanyahu's allegations against   Egypt. Regarding these issues, we have done and continue to do whatever   we can to step up the pressure on Israel. "
"SOME COUNTRIES BECOME AN ACCOMPLICE IN THE CRIMES BY SUPPORTING ISRAEL UNCONDITIONALLY"
"We already submitted our official application to intervene in the   genocide case the Republic of South Africa lodged with the International   Court of Justice. We continue our intensive endeavors in order for   Israeli authorities that perpetrate crimes in Gaza to be held   accountable at international courts. As I have previously stated, the   rightful place for the killers of 41,000 innocent individuals is not the   parliamentary podium, but the courtrooms where they will be tried for   their crimes," President Erdoğan underscored.
Urging the international community to fulfill its responsibilities in   the face of Israel's brutalities in Gaza, President Erdoğan said: "Some   countries unfortunately become an accomplice in the crimes by   supporting Israel unconditionally. No deterrent steps are being taken to   stop the Netanyahu government's massacre policies, which put the   region, and even the entire world, at risk. All must understand the   unacceptability of this scene, which wounds the consciences. Preventing   Israel from dragging our region into further tension will only be   possible by abandoning ambivalent policies. I hereby reiterate our call   to immediately back down from the mistake and get positioned on the   right side of history."
Noting that regional issues including the Eastern Mediterranean,   Syria, Libya, Sudan and the Horn of Africa were also on the agenda   during today's talks in Ankara, President Erdoğan added: " We are   determined to strengthen our consultations with Egypt, with which we   hold similar approaches and goals on a wide range of issues. We will   inshallah be in closer cooperation in the period ahead. We will enhance   our multifaceted relations in a win-win manner. Before ending my   remarks, I wish today's talks and agreements to be auspicious. I thank   Mr. President and his distinguished delegation for their visit."



