Israeli forces storm towns in occupied West Bank amid heightened tensions
Iran Press TV
_
20240903
https://www.globalsecurity.org/military/library/news/2024/09/mil-240902-presstv08.htm

Iran Press TV
Monday, 02 September 2024 6:59 AM
Israeli military forces have once again stormed cities and towns in the West Bank as part of their stepped-up raids on Palestinian neighborhoods across the occupied territory, sparking confrontation with local residents.
The official Palestinian news agency WAFA, citing eyewitnesses and local authorities, reported that Israeli troops raided At-Tira village, located 8.3 kilometers (5.2 miles) southwest of Ramallah,  as well as the cites of Ramallah and al-Bireh besides the nearby towns of Burqa and Silwad late on Sunday.
The agency reported clashes in Deir Jarir, located northeast of Ramallah, as Israeli soldiers forced their way into the town.
Israeli forces also stormed the city of Nablus and the town of Odala, where they clashed with Palestinians and fired live rounds and rubber-coated bullets to disperse the protesting crowd.
The raids come as Israeli forces continue a deadly and destructive siege on the Jenin refugee camp in the north of the occupied West Bank.
Two Palestinian youths killed by Israeli forces near Jenin
Meanwhile, two young Palestinian men were shot dead by Israeli soldiers during a raid on Kafr Dan village, located 8 kilometers (4.9 miles) northwest of Jenin.
The Palestine Red Crescent Society (PRCS) said that it transferred the dead bodies to a nearby hospital.
According to WAFA, Israeli forces shot the two young men after opening fire on their vehicle at the entrance to Kafr Dan, prevented Palestinian paramedics from providing them with first aid and left them bleeding to death.
Earlier in the day, a young Palestinian man was killed by Israeli forces' fire in the city of al-Khalil, according to security sources.
The sources said Israeli forces surrounded a house in the southern West Bank city, and targeted it with a barrage of live bullets and a missile, killing a youth inside.
Israeli soldiers also took away the body of the young man whose identity remains unknown.
Since Israel unleashed a war on the besieged Gaza Strip in early October 2023, casualties have been rising in the West Bank as a result of intensified near-daily Israeli raids into villages and cities in the occupied territories.
According to Palestinian health officials, at least 679 Palestinians have been killed and nearly 5,400 others injured by Israeli forces in the West Bank since the outbreak of the war on Gaza.
At least 40,738 Palestinians, most of them women and children, have also been killed in the Israeli genocidal war against the Gaza Strip during the past 11 months.


