Hamas issues new warning over Israeli captives amid ongoing genocide
Iran Press TV
_
20240905
https://www.globalsecurity.org/military/library/news/2024/09/mil-240904-presstv02.htm

Iran Press TV
Wednesday, 04 September 2024 4:38 PM
The Palestinian resistance movement Hamas has issued a stark warning to the Israeli regime regarding the ongoing genocide in Gaza, saying the lives of captives held in the besieged territory are in danger unless the regime reverses its course.
In a video message directed at Israeli settlers, Hamas stated that the continuation of military aggression would jeopardize the safety of Israeli captives.
Hamas said if the attacks on Gaza ceases, the captives will be returned safely to their homes in the occupied territories, and if the aggression persists, the fate of these individuals would remain uncertain.
The video message noted, "Every day that Netanyahu continues to rule may mean a new coffin."
Hamas took a large group of Zionist settlers and soldiers captive in its October 7 Operation Al-Aqsa Storm, which caught the regime off-guard.
The movement initially offered to release the captives in exchange for the release of a large number of Palestinians held by Israel.
But Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu has taken a tough line in the Gaza ceasefire talks, and repeatedly said military pressure is needed to bring home the captives.
According to Israeli media, he has feuded with the regime's high-profile officials who say a deal should be struck urgently.
Dozens of the captives have so far been killed in the indiscriminate bombardment of Gaza.
During its operation, Hamas took 251 Israelis captive, 97 of whom now remain in Gaza, including the bodies of at least 33 confirmed dead by the Israeli military.
Earlier this week, the military found the bodies of six captives in a tunnel in the southern city of Rafah. Hamas said they were killed in Israeli airstrikes.
The death of the six captives ignited fury among Israelis who have for months denounced Netanyahu's policy of torpedoing a deal with Hamas in favor of his political interests.
On Sunday and Monday, thousands of Israelis staged the largest anti-regime demonstration since October 7, 2023, when Israel unleashed its genocidal campaign in Gaza. They took to the streets in the occupied lands and joined a general strike to call for an immediate ceasefire deal.
Israeli media reported clashes during the protests outside Netanyahu's residence in the occupied al-Quds and the headquarters of his Likud party in Tel Aviv. Dozens of people were arrested.


