Defence Secretary welcomes Ukrainian counterpart to UK and confirms £1bn milestone in UK-administered fund
_
_
20240904
https://www.globalsecurity.org/wmd/library/news/ukraine/2024/09/ukraine-240903-ukmod01.htm
The milestone comes as the International Fund for Ukraine's largest support package will start delivering this year
3 September 2024
Urgent work to accelerate the delivery of the UK's military support   for Ukraine will be discussed between the Defence Secretary and his   counterpart, Rustem Umerov, during a visit to London today.
The visit comes during a milestone moment in international support   for Ukraine, with eight countries from across the world having now   joined the UK to provide more than £1 billion to the International Fund   for Ukraine (IFU), in a significant show of unity from Ukraine's allies.
It comes after the Prime Minister announced the IFU's largest ever   support package at the NATO Summit in July, with a £300m contract to   supply 152mm artillery shells to supply Ukraine's Soviet-era guns. He   also confirmed £3bn of UK aid for Ukraine per year for as long as it   takes.
The Defence Secretary confirmed today the £300m contract has now been   signed and is expected to deliver thousands of shells before the end of   the year - providing a significant boost for Ukraine's stockpiles and   aligning with the Government's acceleration of military support   deliveries.
Denmark, Lithuania, the Netherlands, and Norway all confirmed their   intent this summer to invest additional money in the Fund to purchase   more drones to help on the frontline, as well as vital air defence   capabilities to help shield Ukraine's people and key infrastructure from   relentless Russian bombardment.
UK military equipment continues to prove invaluable for Ukraine's   war effort. The ongoing defensive operation in Kursk underlines the   crucial importance of continued support. And today's milestone for the   International Fund for Ukraine shows the value of working with our   Allies to deliver that support.
Our government is stepping up Britain's support   for Ukraine to fight Putin's illegal invasion. We are speeding up   deliveries of aid, with a much-needed ammunition package announced by   the Prime Minister at NATO set to begin deliveries within months. We   will continue to step up our support to help Ukraine achieve victory.
In his first days as Defence Secretary, John Healey met President   Zelenskyy and Minister Umerov in Ukraine, where he pledged to accelerate   the delivery of the UK's military support for Ukraine.
The artillery ammunition contract, placed by Defence Equipment &   Support - the MOD's procurement arm - will deliver 120,000   newly-manufactured shells over the next 18 months, and will stimulate   industrial capacity in Europe and safeguard reliable supply chains that   will continue to provide Ukraine with vital ammunition.
It follows previous packages of support from the IFU, which have   delivered heavy-lift and reconnaissance drones, maritime drones,   minefield-clearing capabilities, combat vehicle spares and air defence   systems.
The IFU was first launched by Denmark and the UK in 2022 to provide a   more efficient way for countries to pool resources to buy equipment and   weapons to support Ukraine's most urgent capability needs. The UK has   donated £500m to the Fund to date.
With artillery having proved critical to Ukraine's previous   battlefield successes, this new investment will support them in further   degrading Russia's forces and preventing them from making significant   breakthroughs.
Other contributors to the IFU include Australia, Iceland, New   Zealand, and Sweden. Further deliveries from the IFU's other contracts   will continue through the coming months.



