Treasury Takes Action as Part of a U.S. Government Response to Russia's Foreign Malign Influence Operations
U.S. Department of the Treasury
_
20240905
https://www.globalsecurity.org/intell/library/news/2024/intell-240904-treasury01.htm

U.S. Department of the Treasury
September 4, 2024
The   United States takes action to defend and protect U.S. election   institutions and processes from Moscow's attempts to influence the 2024   Presidential Election
WASHINGTON -- Today, the Department of the Treasury's Office of Foreign Assets Control (OFAC) designated10   individuals and two entities as part of a coordinated U.S. government   response to Moscow's malign influence efforts targeting the 2024 U.S.   presidential election. Russian state-sponsored actors have long used a   variety of tools, such as generative artificial intelligence (AI) deep   fakes and disinformation, in an attempt to undermine confidence in the   United States' election processes and institutions. Beginning in   early 2024, executives at RT—Russia's state-funded news media   outlet—began an even more nefarious effort to covertly recruit unwitting   American influencers in support of their malign influence campaign. RT   used a front company to disguise its own involvement or the involvement   of the Russian government in content meant to influence U.S. audiences.
"Today's   action underscores the U.S. government's ongoing efforts to hold   state-sponsored actors accountable for activities that aim to   deteriorate public trust in our institutions," said Secretary of the   Treasury Janet L. Yellen. "Treasury will not waver in our commitment to   safeguarding our democratic principles and the integrity of our election   systems."
Today's designations complement law enforcement actions   taken by the Department of Justice and the Department of State's   designation of the Rossiya Segodnya media group and five of its   subsidiaries, RIA Novosti, RT, TV-Novosti, Ruptly, and Sputnik, as   Foreign Missions, steps to impose visa restrictions, and release of a   Rewards for Justice (RFJ) reward offer of up to $10 million relating to   information pertaining to foreign interference in a U.S. election.
The   Kremlin employs an array of tools, including covert foreign malign   influence campaigns and illicit cyber activities, to undermine the   national security and foreign policy interests of the United States and   its allies and partners globally. Russia routinely uses its intelligence   services, government-directed proxies, and covert influence tools in   these efforts. The Kremlin has increasingly adapted its efforts to hide   its involvement by developing a vast ecosystem of Russian proxy   websites, fake online personas, and front organizations that give the   false appearance of being independent news sources unconnected to the   Russian state.
Today's designations follow prior OFAC actions   that have highlighted and disrupted Russia's global malign influence   campaigns, including Kremlin-directed malign influence efforts, interference in U.S. elections, efforts to subvert democracy in Moldova, destabilization activities in Ukraine, and the operation of outlets controlled by Russian intelligence services, among others.
RT, formerly Russia Today,   is a Russian state-funded news outlet that began broadcasting   internationally in 2005. In 2017, RT registered as an agent of a foreign   government in the United States. Beginning in early 2024, RT executives   began an effort to covertly recruit unwitting American influencers. RT   used a front company to disguise its own involvement or the involvement   of the Russian government.
Margarita Simonovna Simonyan (Simonyan) is the Editor-in-Chief of RT and a central figure in Russian   government malign influence efforts. She allowed the operations of a   front company to occur under the cover of RT. Elizaveta Yuryevna Brodskaia (Brodskaia) is the Deputy Editor-in-Chief of RT, who has reported to Russian President Putin and other government officials. Anton Sergeyvich Anisimov (Anisimov) is an RT Deputy Editor-in-Chief, who conducts activities on behalf of the Russian Federal Security Service (FSB). Andrey Vladimirovich Kiyashko (Kiyashko) is the Deputy Director of the RT English-Language   Information Broadcasting and is responsible for updating Russian   government officials and providing an overview of RT's operations. Konstantin Kalashnikov (Kalashnikov) is RT's Digital Media Projects Manager, who, in   early 2022, worked with Kiyashko. In mid‑2023, Brodskaia and Kiyashko   implemented a large-scale influence operation for RT on U.S. social   media with the intent of obscuring RT's connection to the content meant   to influence online audiences. Elena Mikhaylovna Afanasyeva (Afanasyeva)   is an employee of RT's Digital Media Projects Department and reports to   Kalashnikov. Starting in early 2024, Afanasyeva covertly interacted   with prominent U.S. social media influencers under the cover of a fake   persona, purporting to be an employee at a U.S. company to obscure RT's   and the Russian government's involvement.
The pro-Kremlin hacktivist group RaHDit is composed of active and former Russian intelligence officers. Aleksey Alekseyevich Garashchenko (Garashchenko) is the head of RaHDit and was an FSB officer at the time   he started leading the group. Garashchenko directly interacts with   members of the Russian intelligence and security services, members of   the Russian Presidential Administration, and employees from RT. Anastasia Igorevna Yermoshkina (Yermoshkina) is an affiliate of Garashchenko. Aleksandr Vitalyevich Nezhentsev (Nezhentsev) works with Garashchenko and is an administrator and   developer of cyber tools used by the FSB. Nezhentsev also leads a team   focusing on developing new tools that can be used in the surveillance of   information data files.
Today, OFAC designated Simonyan,   Brodskaia, Anisimov, Kiyashko, Kalashnikov, Afanasyeva, Garashchenko,   Yermoshkina, and Nezhentsev pursuant to E.O. 14024 for being owned or   controlled, or having acted or purported to act for or on behalf of,   directly or indirectly, the Government of the Russian Federation.
Autonomous Non-Profit Organization (ANO) Dialog (ANO Dialog) is a Russian nonprofit organization founded in 2019 by the   Moscow city government that leverages AI technology in online Russian   disinformation for use against election campaigns. ANO Dialog Regions (Dialog Regions) is ANO Dialog's subsidiary organization that is   co-located at their Moscow headquarters and also has offices throughout   Russia.
Vladimir Grigoryevich Tabak (Tabak) is   the Director General of both ANO Dialog and Dialog Regions. He   previously held several positions in the Russian Presidential   Administration.
ANO Dialog is linked to Doppelgänger—a   Russia-linked influence operation network identified in 2022—that used   deep fake content to develop Russian disinformation campaigns. In   fall 2022, Tabak was expected to attend a meeting with senior Russian   government officials. The meeting discussed the presumed success of the   Doppelgänger activity and provided feedback and guidance on future   projects.
In July 2022, ANO Dialog and Tabak provided services to   the Russian government, working on a project for the creation of fake   online posts on popular social media accounts, including "Reliable   Recent News" ("RRN") and "War on Fakes"—a Russian disinformation website   publicly linked to the Doppelgänger activity—that would be composed of   counterfeit documents, among other material, in order to elicit an   emotional response from the audiences of these accounts. An ANO Dialog   advisor purchased RRN's new domain, "rrn.world" in order to avoid using   the former domain, "rrussianews.com," which would have maintained a   connection to Russia. Tabak also coordinated with ANO Dialog and the   Russian government on the payment of services for an RRN-affiliate   translator.
In late fall 2023, ANO Dialog personnel identified   U.S., UK, and other public figures as potential targets for deepfake   projects. Because of this, the EU sanctioned ANO Dialog for its role in   the disinformation network and specifically as the owner and operator of   the "War on Fakes" website. In May 2024, Tabak and several Dialog   Regions officials coordinated with Russian government officials   regarding the creation of bot accounts on popular social media messaging   platforms for use in a misinformation campaign regarding voting   locations in the U.S. 2024 election.
Today, OFAC designated ANO   Dialog pursuant to E.O. 14024 for being owned or controlled by, or   having acted or purported to act for or on behalf of, directly or   indirectly, the Government of the Russian Federation; Dialog Regions   pursuant to E.O. 14024 for being owned or controlled by, or having acted   or purported to act for or on behalf of, directly or indirectly, ANO   Dialog; and Tabak pursuant to E.O. 14024 for being owned or controlled   by, or having acted or purported to act for or on behalf of, directly or   indirectly, the Government of the Russian Federation and for being a   leader, official, senior executive officer, or member of the board of   directors of ANO Dialog and Dialog Regions, persons whose property and   interests in property are blocked pursuant to E.O. 14024.
Also   today, the Federal Bureau of Investigation announced the seizure of   domains associated with RRN/ANO Dialog and Social Design Agency   (SDA)—which OFAC had previously designated pursuant to E.O. 14024 for   its activities on behalf of the Russian government—that have been used   in furtherance of the Russian Doppelgänger disinformation efforts   targeting the United States and Europe.
As   a result of today's action, all property and interests in property of   the designated persons described above that are in the United States or   in the possession or control of U.S. persons are blocked and must be   reported to OFAC. In addition, any entities that are owned, directly or   indirectly, individually or in the aggregate, 50 percent or more by one   or more blocked persons are also blocked. Unless authorized by a general   or specific license issued by OFAC, or exempt, OFAC's regulations   generally prohibit all transactions by U.S. persons or within (or   transiting) the United States that involve any property or interests in   property of designated or otherwise blocked persons.
In addition,   financial institutions and other persons that engage in certain   transactions or activities with the sanctioned persons may expose   themselves to sanctions or be subject to an enforcement action. The   prohibitions include the making of any contribution or provision of   funds, goods, or services by, to, or for the benefit of any designated   person, or the receipt of any contribution or provision of funds, goods,   or services from any such person.
The power and integrity of   OFAC sanctions derive not only from OFAC's ability to designate and add   persons to the SDN List, but also from its willingness to remove persons   from the SDN List consistent with the law. The ultimate goal of   sanctions is not to punish, but to bring about a positive change in   behavior. For information concerning the process for seeking removal   from an OFAC list, including the SDN List, please refer toOFAC's Frequently Asked Question 897 here. For detailed information on the process to submit a request for removal from an OFAC sanctions list, please click here.
Click here for more information on the individuals and entities designated today.
###



