10 anti-government protesters go on trial for treason in Nigeria
_
_
20240903
https://www.globalsecurity.org/military/library/news/2024/09/mil-240902-voa04.htm
By Timothy Obiezu September 02, 2024
Trial began Monday in Nigeria for 10 people charged with treason in connection with anti-government protests that erupted last month over the high cost of living. The defendants could face the death penalty if convicted.
The defendants are also charged with conspiring to incite the military to mutiny. They pleaded not guilty, and a bail hearing was set for September 11.
In early August, thousands of protesters took to Nigeria's streets to denounce President Bola Tinubu's policies and government.
Tinubu scrapped expensive fuel subsidy payments last year upon assuming office and soon afterward floated the national currency, the naira.
Authorities accused protesters of inciting public unrest and burning government buildings but pledged to address the economic hardship.
The case has drawn the ire of human rights group Amnesty International. Isa Sanusi, the country director for Amnesty in Nigeria, said, "What they're doing is just a deliberate effort to psychologically and physically break down these people, who are resilient people and came out to express their anger over the way the nation is being run as a result of corruption and mismanagement. So the trial is a sham; it does not meet all the international standards of fair trial."
Amnesty also called the trial a mockery of Nigeria's rule of law. The group said the government was attempting to stifle dissent, and it called for the protesters to be released and charges withdrawn immediately.
The 10 defendants are among hundreds of protesters who were arrested during last month's demonstrations, which came amid Nigeria's worst economic crisis in a generation.
In the nationwide protests, tagged "Ten Days of Rage," demonstrators demanded better governance and a reversal of government reforms, including the scrapping of the fuel subsidy.
During the demonstrations, protesters in northern Nigeria hoisted Russian flags as they marched and chanted for President Vladimir Putin to come to their aid.
The protests were met with a fierce crackdown by security forces. Amnesty International said 13 people were killed, and Amnesty's Sanusi said Nigerian authorities should focus on investigating these killings.
Sanusi also said Nigerian authorities have been denying the detained protesters access to family and legal representation.
"These people have not been allowed to have access to adequate legal representation or assistance," he said. "Treason carries the death penalty, according to the Nigerian laws. ... So that is the tactic they use - they use this ambiguity, suspense of being taken to court just to break down the spirit of these protesters, and we condemn this misuse of the Nigerian judicial system to suppress people."
The government has not responded to Amnesty International's statement. But in the past, the government has often said it works in the interest of national security.
The legal counsel for the protesters, Deji Adeyanju, said a team of lawyers has been working to secure their release.
"The charge against the protesters is completely unacceptable because it's an attempt to criminalize freedom of assembly," Adeyanju said. "The criminalization will be resisted."
On Monday, Nigerian police also declared British national Andrew Wynne wanted for allegedly plotting to topple the Nigerian government. The Associated Press said the British high commissioner had not responded to a request for comment.
Police also said nine suspects have been arrested in connection with allegedly receiving monies from foreign sources to destabilize the country.


