Meeting with Prime Minister of Malaysia Anwar Ibrahim
_
_
20240905
https://www.globalsecurity.org/wmd/library/news/russia/2024/09/russia-240904-kremlin04.htm
Vladimir Putin had a meeting with Prime Minister of Malaysia Anwar Ibrahim on the sidelines of the Eastern Economic Forum.
September 4, 2024  13:00  Russky Island, Primorye Territory
The Russian delegation included Foreign Minister Sergey Lavrov, Deputy Chief of Staff of the Presidential Executive Office Maxim Oreshkin, Presidential Aide Yury Ushakov, Economic Development Minister Maxim Reshetnikov, Minister of Science and Higher Education and Co-Chair of the Joint Russia-Malaysia Commission for Economic, Scientific, Technical and Cultural Cooperation Valery Falkov, Energy Minister Sergei Tsivilev, and Deputy Defence Minister Alexander Fomin.
* * *
President of Russia Vladimir Putin: Mr Prime Minister, friends and colleagues,
Welcome to Russia and to Vladivostok.
Mr Prime Minister, I would like to begin by thanking you for accepting our invitation to come here and attend the Eastern Economic Forum. Tomorrow, we will take part in its plenary session, and I am certain that this will be a useful event for discussing our objectives in bringing the regional economies closer together. In fact, we have many guests here from dozens of countries, which means that you will be able to engage in useful contacts not only with your Russian colleagues, but also with colleagues from other countries.
Of course, I do hope that we will have an opportunity to explore ways to expand our cooperation as part of these efforts. Today, trade between our countries amounts to about $3.5 billion, which can hardly be considered a satisfactory result for us considering the potential we have. In fact, there are many opportunities on both sides.
As you know, Russia pays considerable attention to developing its relations with Southeast Asia and ASEAN. Malaysia plays a prominent role in this association, and will be assuming the chairmanship of ASEAN next year. We sincerely hope that during your chairmanship, we will be able to explore new opportunities for cooperation with this rapidly growing and promising region.
To conclude my opening remarks, I would like to congratulate you and the Malaysian leadership, as well as the entire nation on Independence Day, the national holiday you have celebrated recently. As far as I know, it is observed on August 31. I would like to use this opportunity to wish the people of Malaysia all the best, prosperity and wellbeing.
Prime Minister of Malaysia Anwar Ibrahim: Thank you, President Putin. First of all, let me express on behalf of my delegation how pleased we are to be here in Vladivostok and in a great country, Russia, which we admire and follow very closely. First and foremost, this includes its literature and the great novelists, and then of course its strength: economic, technological and space.
I think that as a country that believes in centrality, engaging with all countries, we, of course, decided to come with a big team to show our sincere attempt to enhance our collaboration. There is enormous potential that you have in Russia. You have done so much. And it is to our benefit too, if you could share this and collaborate in all fields.
You have shown your determination to be able to undertake difficulties and survive. I think that we will certainly benefit from this experience. Of course, we in ASEAN too look forward for your participation. As you know, ASEAN is always engaged with Russia. We have open trade with a focus on semiconductors and some other related fields, and I look forward to working with you and your team. Even more so, Mr President, I agree with you - the potential is huge. We have not fully utilised ours.
During our initial discussions when we were preparing to come here - this was not an easy feat, but we took this decision - and I think that this was the right decision. We have decided to enhance in all fields with you, and I am certainly looking forward to better relations, personal and governmental collaboration in all fields. So I must take this opportunity to thank you personally for giving time in your busy schedule today.
We would, of course, look forward to an effective follow-up programme since the discussion must not end here. I can assure you that when I assume the chairmanship of ASEAN, we will make sure that my colleagues in ASEAN take the same position to enhance our collaboration with Russia.
Thank you.


