Xi Jinping Meets with Kenyan President William Ruto
Ministry of Foreign Affairs, the People's Republic of China
_
20240904
https://www.globalsecurity.org/wmd/library/news/china/2024/09/china-240903-prc-mofa04.htm

Ministry of Foreign Affairs, the People's Republic of China
Updated: September 03, 2024 16:20
On the morning of September 3, 2024, President Xi Jinping met with Kenyan President William Ruto, who is in China for the Beijing Summit of the Forum on China-Africa Cooperation (FOCAC), at the Great Hall of the People in Beijing.
Xi Jinping pointed out that China and Kenya have a time-honored friendship that developed in their struggles for national liberation and deepened on their journey toward national rejuvenation. China and Kenya have always joined hands and been at the forefront of Belt and Road cooperation, and completed a number of flagship projects in connectivity, significantly contributing to regional economic and social development and benefiting the two peoples.
Xi Jinping suggested that the two sides should deepen the China-Kenya comprehensive strategic cooperative partnership by pursuing the goal of becoming "three types of partners". First, the two sides should carry forward friendship and be sincere partners of mutual trust. The two sides should firmly support each other in safeguarding national sovereignty and independently exploring development paths suited to their national conditions. Second, the two sides should uphold fundamental principles while breaking new ground, and be cooperative partners of mutual benefit and win-win results. The two sides should closely synergize the high-quality Belt and Road cooperation with Kenya Vision 2030, build an East African connectivity hub and industrial belt, and strengthen cooperation in such areas as digital economy, new energy, economy, trade, poverty reduction and agriculture development. Third, the two sides should strengthen confidence and be strategic partners in upholding fairness and justice. The two sides should enhance communication and coordination on international and regional issues, work together to safeguard the common interests of the Global South, and promote regional peace and stability.
William Ruto thanked China for hosting the FOCAC Beijing Summit, which provides an important platform and opportunity for Africa and China to seek common development in the future. Kenya-China relations are based on deep friendship, mutual respect, mutual trust and mutual benefit. The two sides have successfully implemented major infrastructure construction cooperation projects such as the Mombasa-Nairobi Railway within the framework of the Belt and Road Initiative, which has strongly promoted Kenya's economic and social development and become a new symbol for Kenya-China friendly and mutually beneficial cooperation. Kenya hopes to take the FOCAC Summit as an opportunity to push for further development of the comprehensive strategic cooperative partnership between Kenya and China. China is welcome to continue to increase investment in Kenya and expand bilateral practical cooperation in various fields, especially cooperation in connectivity, new energy, youth and other areas. Kenya highly admires and actively supports a series of major global initiatives put forward by President Xi Jinping that have played an important leading role in strengthening solidarity and cooperation among developing countries and countries of the Global South. Kenya firmly pursues the one-China policy and is ready to strengthen multilateral cooperation with China and render firm support to each other.
During the summit, China and Kenya will sign a number of bilateral cooperation documents in financing, infrastructure and other fields.
Wang Yi was present at the meeting.


