Israeli military classifies West Bank as 'combat zone' as deadly raids intensify
Iran Press TV
_
20240904
https://www.globalsecurity.org/military/library/news/2024/09/mil-240903-presstv05.htm

Iran Press TV
Tuesday, 03 September 2024 11:15 AM
Israel is reportedly expected to change its policy in the occupied West Bank, designating the occupied Palestinian territory as "the second most critical front, immediately after Gaza" where the regime is waging a genocidal war.
The daily Israel Hayom reported on Tuesday that recent tensions have convinced the occupying regime's top officials that they can no longer view the West Bank as a "secondary arena" requiring stable maintenance.
Although the directive to classify the West Bank as a "combat zone" is still in its initial stages, a series of attacks across the occupied territory are imminent, the report added.
It also noted that Israeli raids "are set to continue in the foreseeable future" as two brigade combat teams are currently deployed in the Jenin refugee camp and the city of Tulkarm.
"The Jenin operation is just the beginning," the report cited security officials as saying.
On August 28, the Israeli military launched a massive West Bank assault, deploying hundreds of troops and conducting airstrikes on Jenin, Tulkarm, and Tubas, which are major centers of Palestinian resistance against the usurping regime.
Local Palestinian resistance forces have been confronting the invading Israeli military since the start of the aggression, which is the largest in the occupied West Bank in more than two decades.
"Our fighters are fighting fierce battles with the enemy forces storming Tulkarm camp and are showering the infantry forces in the camp's alleys with heavy barrages of bullets, achieving direct hits," the Tulkarm Brigades, the local branch of the Palestinian Islamic Jihad's al-Quds Brigades, said on Tuesday.
So far, at least 31 Palestinians have been killed in Israel's West Bank assault, according to the official WAFA news agency.
Israeli forces and settlers have also killed almost 680 Palestinians in the occupied West Bank since 7 October, 2023 when the regime launched its brutal Gaza onslaught.


