Israel using 'lethal war-like tactics' against Palestinians in West Bank, UN warns
Iran Press TV
_
20240905
https://www.globalsecurity.org/military/library/news/2024/09/mil-240904-presstv03.htm

Iran Press TV
Wednesday, 04 September 2024 3:35 PM
The United Nations has warned that Israel is using "lethal war-like tactics" against Palestinians in the occupied West Bank, more than a week after the occupying entity launched a massive military aggression in the Palestinian territory, killing dozens of people.
At a press conference in New York on Tuesday, spokeswoman for the UN Office for the Coordination of Humanitarian Affairs (OCHA), Stéphane Dujarric, said that the Tel Aviv regime had resumed its aggression in Tulkarm and Jenin.
"The UN has recorded more than two dozen fatalities over the past week, including children," he said, adding that multiple organizations mobilized by the OCHA were set to carry out an assessment in Jenin but were denied access by the Israeli authorities.
"OCHA warns that access impediments are impacting the ability to provide meaningful humanitarian response," Dujarric said, noting that the movement of ambulances and medical teams has been impeded and delayed since the onset of the current aggression.
In the early hours of August 28, the Israeli military conducted its biggest operation - dubbed "Camps of Summer" - in the West Bank in over 20 years, deploying hundreds of troops and airstrikes on Jenin, Tulkarem, and Tubas, which are major centers of Palestinian resistance against the occupying entity.
The ongoing military aggression in the West Bank is currently concentrated in the city of Jenin, whose streets and infrastructure have been damaged by over 70 percent since the onset of the "Camps of Summer", according to its municipality.
Dujarric also warned that Israeli forces continue to employ "lethal war-like tactics" in the West Bank, including airstrikes, with people being killed, injured and displaced.
While in Tulkarem on Saturday, OCHA teams verified that 120 Palestinians, including over 40 children, were displaced due to the destruction of their homes.
"At the time of the assessment, 13,000 people in Nour Shams refugee camp experienced water cut-offs, attributed to damages caused to the water network, and sewage overflow was observed. The teams also noted that the population was traumatized and in need of psychosocial support," the OCHA report said.
Since the onset of the current aggression in the West Bank, the number of Palestinians killed by Israeli forces has increased to 34. This includes 19 in Jenin, 8 in Tulkarm, 4 in Tubas, and 3 in al-Khalil. The total death toll in the occupied West Bank has now reached 685 since October 7 last year.
The heightened tensions in the occupied West Bank come as the Israeli regime has since October been conducting a barbaric onslaught on the besieged Gaza Strip, claiming the lives of more than 40,000 people, most of them women and children.


