Israeli Army Ground Forces commander steps down amid Gaza war
Iran Press TV
_
20240904
https://www.globalsecurity.org/wmd/library/news/israel/2024/09/israel-240903-presstv01.htm

Iran Press TV
Tuesday, 03 September 2024 10:50 AM
The commander of the Israeli Army Ground Forces has resigned from his position, amid a recent wave of resignations by the regime's high-ranking officers, which has fueled speculation about the potential for a domino effect within various institutions.
The Israeli military said in a statement on Tuesday that Major General Tamir Yadai has stepped down due to "personal reasons."
Yadai has served as the head of the Ground Forces for the past three years.
The Israeli army's chief of staff Lieutenant General Herzi Halevi and minister of military affairs Yoav Gallant have approved Yadai's request, the statement added.
Yadai is expected to leave the office within the coming weeks, once a replacement officer is found. It is not immediately clear who will be his successor.
Back on June 9, Israeli war cabinet minister Benny Gantz and war cabinet observer Gadi Eisenkot stepped out of Israel's war cabinet.
They joined Netanyahu's administration after Israel launched its onslaught against the Gaza Strip in early October last year, leading to the formation of the emergency coalition, which then established the war cabinet.
Addressing a press conference in Tel Aviv, Gantz called on Netanyahu to hold early elections "as soon as possible."
"Months after the October tragedy, the situation in Israel and in the room of the decision-makers has changed. Netanyahu and his partners have turned unity into a moving call without real-world action. Fateful strategic decisions are met with hesitancy and procrastination due to political considerations," Gantz said.
"Unfortunately, Netanyahu prevents us from reaching true victory. Therefore, today, we are leaving the emergency coalition with a heavy heart, but with a full heart," he added.
Earlier, Brigadier General Avi Rosenfeld, commander of the Israeli military's Gaza Division, resigned from his post over failure to prevent a historic operation by the Gaza Strip-based Palestinian resistance groups early last October.
Rosenfeld submitted his resignation in a letter to the chief of staff of the Israeli army, saying he "failed" in his mission to protect the regime in the face of the Palestinian resistance's Operation al-Aqsa Storm, which was carried out on October 7, 2023.
"I have decided to end my position as commander of the 143rd Division (the Gaza Division) ... as part of my responsibility as a commander," he wrote in his resignation letter.
Israel waged the genocidal war against the Gaza Strip, targeting hospitals, residences, and houses of worship after Palestinian resistance movements launched a surprise attack, dubbed Operation al-Aqsa Storm, against the usurping regime on October 7.
At least 40,786 Palestinians have been killed, most of them women and children, and another 94,224 individuals have sustained injuries. More than 1.7 million people have been internally displaced during the war as well.


