PM Modi, his Singapore counterpart Wong discuss 'boosting cooperation' in key areas
India Blooms News Service
05 Sep 2024, 01:27 pm
20240905
https://www.indiablooms.com/news-details/N/99606/pm-modi-his-singapore-counterpart-wong-discuss-boosting-cooperation-in-key-areas.html
Prime Minister Modi is on a two-day visit to Singapore at the invitation of Wong.
After their meeting, Modi updated about their discussion on X posting, "The discussions with my friend, PM Lawrence Wong continued today. Our talks focused on boosting cooperation in areas like skilling, technology, healthcare, AI and more. We both agreed on the need to boost trade relations. "
The discussions with my friend, PM Lawrence Wong continued today. Our talks focused on boosting cooperation in areas like skilling, technology, healthcare, AI and more. We both agreed on the need to boost trade relations. @LawrenceWongST pic.twitter.com/FOSxXQOI3u
Prior to their meeting, Modi was greeted with a red-carpet entry into the Singapore Parliament House. He signed the visitor's book too.
The meeting comes a few months after Wong became the Singapore Prime Minister and Modi returned to power in New Delhi for the third consecutive term.
The two countries also exchanged four Memorandum of Understanding or MoUs.
Sharing my remarks during meeting with PM @LawrenceWongST.https://t.co/ipc5WmnY6x
In a separate social media post, Modi posted about his visit to a semiconductor manufacturing facility.
The Indian Prime Minister wrote on X, "Semiconductors and technology are important facets of India-Singapore cooperation. This is also a sector where India is increasing its presence. Today, PM Wong and I visited AEM Holdings Ltd. We look forward to working together in this sector and giving our youth more opportunities."
Semiconductors and technology are important facets of India-Singapore cooperation. This is also a sector where India is increasing its presence. Today, PM Wong and I visited AEM Holdings Ltd. We look forward to working together in this sector and giving our youth more… pic.twitter.com/Bdh8nU1w6Y

