Naveen Patnaik's BJD to oppose Waqf Bill in parliament
India Blooms News Service
06 Sep 2024, 01:13 am
20240905
https://www.indiablooms.com/news-details/N/99629/naveen-patnaik-s-bjd-to-oppose-waqf-bill-in-parliament.html
Speaking at a meeting of the party’s minority cell at the BJD headquarters, Sankha Bhawan, Patnaik noted a “sense of insecurity” among minorities, whom he regularly engages with, reported The Indian Express.
The Waqf (Amendment) Bill introduces several notable changes to the 1995 Waqf Act, including provisions that would allow a non-Muslim to serve as the chief executive officer and appoint at least two non-Muslim members to state Waqf boards.
It also proposes giving the district collector the authority to decide whether a property is Waqf or government land.
Despite having no representation in the Lok Sabha and its presence in the Rajya Sabha reduced to eight members after one of its members resigned and rejoined as a BJP representative, the BJD had traditionally supported the BJP-led NDA government on key legislations.
However, following its defeat to the BJP in both the 2024 Lok Sabha and assembly elections, the BJD has shifted its stance, with Patnaik declaring the party would cease “issue-based support” to the BJP to strengthen its role as an opposition party in Parliament.
According to the 2011 Census, Muslims make up 2.17 percent of Odisha’s population.
However, BJD sources suggest that Patnaik's decision to oppose the Waqf Bill is aimed at preserving his image as a “secular politician.”
Despite the BJD's support for the Centre’s Citizenship Amendment Bill, the party declared in 2020 that it would oppose the proposed National Register of Citizens (NRC) plan. During the minority cell meeting, Patnaik called on everyone to maintain social harmony.
“Peace and harmony are the foundations of prosperity, which helped Odisha to stride in different sectors,” Patnaik said according to the report.
Patnaik remarked that Odisha has always been recognized for its "harmony and brotherhood," and highlighted that the state's pride lies in its "cultural diversity." He emphasized that building a prosperous country requires the cooperation of everyone.
