RG Kar protests: Kolkata witnesses 14-km-long human chain by doctors; citizens join them in solidarity
Souvik Ghosh/IBNS
03 Sep 2024, 11:36 pm
20240903
https://www.indiablooms.com/news-details/N/99568/rg-kar-protests-kolkata-witnesses-14-km-long-human-chain-by-doctors-citizens-join-them-in-solidarity.html
The unique form of protest (the human chain) only strengthened the agitation by the medics on a day the Kolkata Police scaled down the long iron barricades allowing junior doctors to continue their protest march to the vicinity of Lalbazar (police headquarters).
Image by Avishek Mitra/IBNS
The day began with the singing of the National Anthem by the junior doctors, who were camping at Phears Lane in central Kolkata since Monday evening, forcing the cops to join in.
As the day progressed, junior doctors remained firm in their aim to march to Lalbazar with their demand for the resignation of Commissioner of Police Vineet Goyal over the lapses on the police's part in the entire case.
The protesters spent the entire night at Phears Lane, managed to install temporary toilets for women refusing to return until their demands were met.
Image by Avishek Mitra/IBNS
In the afternoon, when almost 22 hours had passed since the junior doctors started camping on the busy road, police allowed the protesters to march to the vicinity of Lalbazar.
The doctors agreed and a 22-member delegation met Vineet Goyal, submitted their deputation, demanded his resignation and offered him a symbolic spinal cord accusing the police of failing to act without compulsion in the case that has brought the role of Mamata Banerjee government under scanner.
After leaving Lalbazar, one of the junior doctors said Goyal told them he was satisfied with his actions but would resign if he was ordered to do so.
Healthcare professionals form human chain
"There is only one voice, justice for RG Kar," shouted one of the professionals as he joined his healthcare colleagues in the human chain, which was formed along a 14-km stretch along EM Bypass from Patuli to Mani Square.
A post shared by India Blooms (@indiablooms)
A day after ex-RG Kar principal Dr. Sandip Ghosh was arrested by the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) in connection with a corruption case,  Dr. Sumona Goswami feels the move was an "eyewash".
"The arrest was an effort to dilute the Lalbazar march, I feel," said Dr. Goswami though CBI is a central probe agency.
Photo courtesy: IBNS
Differing with Goswami, a doctor, who wanted to remain anonymous, tells IBNS,"Though the arrest is unrelated, this is at least something positive."
The constant honkings of vehicle on the busy EM Bypass was almost muted this evening by the "We Want Justice" or "Justice For RG Kar" slogans while the Ruby (now Rabi Thakurer More) crossing went in the grasp of people, who hummed "We Shall Overcome" with the flash lights of their mobile phones turned on in a show of unity.
A post shared by India Blooms (@indiablooms)
Mamata Banerjee brings anti-rape law amid public ire
Facing massive protests and criticisms over the RG incident, the West Bengal Assembly Tuesday passed the Aparajita Bill to amend some provisions of the criminal code, Bharatiya Nyaya Sanhita, to be applicable for the state.
Though the law is seen by many as a ploy to shift the attention to the issue of rape instead of allowing a fair probe in the RG Kar case where the focus is on destruction of evidence, the amendments are aimed at making punishment more stringent in cases of rape and child abuse.
The Bill seeks to amend several sections in the newly introduced Bharatiya Nyaya Sanhita (BNS). Section 64 in Bharatiya Nyaya Sanhita states that a rape convict will face rigorous imprisonment of not less than 10 years extending to life term.
Photo courtesy: Screenshot grab from X video
The Bengal legislation tweaks this Section to increase the jail term to the "remainder of that person's natural life and fine, or with death". It also adds that this fine shall be fair and reasonable to meet the medical expenses and rehabilitation costs of the victim.
The Aparajita Bill also seeks to amend Section 66 of BNS, which lays down penalties for a convict if rape leads to the victim's death or causes her to be in a "vegetative state".
While the Centre legislation states a punishment of a 20-year jail term, life imprisonment, and death for such a crime, the Bengal Bill says the convict should get only the death penalty.
