RG Kar rape and murder: Delegation of junior doctors submit deputation to city police chief Goyal, medics form human chain in Kolkata demanding justice for victim
India Blooms News Service
03 Sep 2024, 06:12 pm
20240903
https://www.indiablooms.com/news-details/N/99562/rg-kar-rape-and-murder-delegation-of-junior-doctors-submit-deputation-to-cp-goyal-medics-form-human-chain-in-kolkata-demanding-justice-for-victim.html
West Bengal has been witnessing massive protests over the rape and murder of the PG trainee doctor at state-run RG Kar Medical College and Hospital.
One of the representatives said they submitted their 'deputation' to the CP.
"We think CP should take moral responsibility for the incident and resign," a representative was quoted as saying by the media.
He said the junior doctors have decided to withdraw their sit-in demonstration from BB Ganguly Street area where they had been demonstrating since Monday.
"We will still continue our protest," he said.
The protesters, who demanded the resignation of Commissioner of Police Vineet Goyal, spent the entire night at Phears Lane, managed to install temporary toilets for women refusing to return until their demands were met.
After 22 hours, police removed the barricade and allowed the delegation to meet the top cop of the city.
Human chain
Doctors and other medical professionals are also holding a human chain in Kolkata demanding justice for the female doctor.
A post shared by India Blooms (@indiablooms)
"We want justice today. We are participating to protest against this incident. I am doctor and I am demanding justice for the female doctor who is just like my daughter," a doctor, who is participating in the human chain, told media.
Human chain in progress - Ultadanga to Patuli. The numbers will not dwindle. We will not rest. We want justice! pic.twitter.com/EG6LHdjMjQ
The Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI), entrusted with the investigation of the gruesome rape and murder of a junior doctor at Kolkata's RG Kar Hospital as well as the financial irregularities carried out at the facility, has arrested the medical college's ex-principal Sandip Ghosh.
He was sent to eight-day CBI custody after he was produced in a  city court on Tuesday.
Kolkata witnessing continuous protests
Kolkata, its neighbouring districts have been witnessing relentless, unprecedented protests after the post-graduate medical student was raped and murdered at her workplace on the intervening night of August 8 and 9.
Junior doctors and protesters suspect the crime was committed by more than one and an attempt to tamper with evidence and cover up the crime is at play right from the beginning.
The Mamata Banerjee government is now in a crisis as people's protests roil the state challenging the state administration, which was marred by political violence and rampant corruption cases for more than a decade now.
The administration's swift run for the last rites of the victim and demolition work near the crime scene have raised some uncomfortable questions for the state administration, which is helmed by Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee who holds both the police and health portfolios.
