PM visits Brunei: Indian community members gear up to welcome PM Narendra Modi
India Blooms News Service
03 Sep 2024, 06:29 pm
20240903
https://www.indiablooms.com/news-details/N/99563/pm-visits-brunei-indian-community-members-gear-up-to-welcome-pm-narendra-modi.html
Modi, earlier in the day,  arrived in Brunei as a part of his two-country visit.
Speaking to ANI, Ramesh Jeewatram Bhavnani, a prominent community member, highlighted the importance of the visit, saying, "The Prime Minister's visit is a testament to his commitment to the Indian community in Brunei. He is coming here for the Indian community that resides here, this is very important."
"Sultan Haji Hassanal Bolkiah treats every community equally; he does not treat anyone differently. We are grateful to our PM who is coming for us. India has always shown the way to the world and PM will come here to guide us. We hope tourism and trade increase between the two countries," he said.
Hitesh Ramesh, another Indian community member, told the news agency: "People are preparing for it and are excited that he is coming here. PM Modi does something good everywhere he goes. He always gives his 200 per cent."
Narendra Modi on Tuesday arrived in Brunei marking the first-ever visit to the nation by an Indian PM.
"PM @narendramodi alights in Brunei to a ceremonial welcome. Warmly received by Crown Prince His Royal Highness Prince Haji Al-Muhtadee Billah," MEA spokesperson Randhir Jaiswal posted on X.
PM @narendramodi alights in Brunei to a ceremonial welcome. Warmly received by Crown Prince His Royal Highness Prince Haji Al-Muhtadee Billah.  This visit is special as it is the first ever bilateral visit by an Indian PM and is taking place as the two countries are celebrating… pic.twitter.com/y5qk50qYW5
Modi is visiting the country at a time when India and Brunei are celebrating 40 years of diplomatic ties.
Upon arrival in Bandar Seri Begawan, Prime Minister was accorded a ceremonial welcome and warmly received by His Royal Highness Prince Haji Al-Muhtadee Billah, Crown Prince and Senior Minister in the Prime Minister’s Office of Brunei.
"This visit is special as it is the first ever bilateral visit by an Indian PM and is taking place as the two countries are celebrating 40 years of the establishment of diplomatic ties this year," Jaiswal said.
Ahead of leaving India for his two-nation tour, Modi said he is confident that his visit to Brunei and Singapore will further strengthen India's relationships with the two nations.
