INDIA bloc holds mega protest in Mumbai over Shivaji statue collapse amid heavy security deployment
India Blooms News Service
01 Sep 2024, 11:46 am
20240901
https://www.indiablooms.com/news-details/N/99502/india-bloc-holds-mega-protest-in-mumbai-over-shivaji-statue-collapse-amid-heavy-security-deployment.html
Deploying heavy security cover, the Eknath Shinde government in Maharashtra has questioned the relevance of the protest.
#WATCH | Maharashtra | MVA (Maha Vikas Aghadi) takes out a protest march in Mumbai over Chhatrapati Shivaji Maharaj's statue collapse incident. pic.twitter.com/IybFHEfA4C
The ruling BJP has also planned a march to counter the Opposition's agitation.
A huge police contingent has gathered at the Gateway of India, which has also been shut for tourists, citing law and order, media reports said.
The rally will see the who's who of the INDIA bloc in Maharashtra including Shiv Sena (UBT) chief Uddhav Thackeray, NCP (SP) supremo Sharad Pawar and state Congress president Nana Patole.
The leaders are expected to walk from Hutatma Chowk in the Fort area to the Gateway of India.
The Opposition bloc has called its protest rally "jode maro", which means "hit with footwear".
The Shiv Sena (UBT) has urged people to join the march, and has posted on X that it is coming to bow at Shivaji's feet to "awaken the pride of Maharashtra".
The Sharad Pawar faction of NCP has said there is no forgiveness for "corrupt Shivdrohis".
The state unit of the Congress has said the march is aimed at teaching a lesson to "Shivdrohis" for committing corruption and insulting Shivaji.
The Shivaji statue was inaugurated by Prime Minister Narendra Modi just 8 months back. The collapse of the statue has sparked a massive political row in Maharashtra.
The Indian Navy was in charge of the project in coordination with the state government.
Police have arrested the structural consultant for the project and its contractor under sections relating to attempt to murder, culpable homicide, and acts endangering the life and safety of others.
Facing sever backlash, Prime Minister Modi has apologised to the people for the statue's collapse. "Chhatrapati Shivaji Maharaj is not just a name or a king. For us, he is our deity. Today, I bow my head at his feet and apologise to my deity. I also apologise to the people hurt by the collapse," he has said.

