PM Narendra Modi arrives in Brunei
India Blooms News Service
03 Sep 2024, 04:03 pm
20240903
https://www.indiablooms.com/news-details/N/99558/pm-narendra-modi-arrives-in-brunei.html
"PM @narendramodi alights in Brunei to a ceremonial welcome. Warmly received by Crown Prince His Royal Highness Prince Haji Al-Muhtadee Billah," MEA spokesperson Randhir Jaiswal posted on X.
Modi is visiting the country at a time when India and Brunei are celebrating 40 years of diplomatic ties.
Upon arrival in Bandar Seri Begawan, Prime Minister was accorded a ceremonial welcome and warmly received by His Royal Highness Prince Haji Al-Muhtadee Billah, Crown Prince and Senior Minister in the Prime Minister’s Office of Brunei.
"This visit is special as it is the first ever bilateral visit by an Indian PM and is taking place as the two countries are celebrating 40 years of the establishment of diplomatic ties this year," Jaiswal said.
Ahead of leaving India for his two-nation tour, Modi said he is confident that his visit to Brunei and Singapore will further strengthen India's relationships with the two nations.

"Today, I am embarking on a first-ever bilateral visit to Brunei Darussalam. As we celebrate the 40 years of our diplomatic relations, I look forward to my meetings with His Majesty Sultan Haji Hassanal Bolkiah and other esteemed members of the Royal family to advance our historical relationship to new heights," Modi said before embarking on his two-nation tour.
PM @narendramodi alights in Brunei to a ceremonial welcome. Warmly received by Crown Prince His Royal Highness Prince Haji Al-Muhtadee Billah.  This visit is special as it is the first ever bilateral visit by an Indian PM and is taking place as the two countries are celebrating… pic.twitter.com/y5qk50qYW5
"From Brunei, I will travel to Singapore on 4 September. I look forward to the opportunity to meet President Tharman Shanmugaratnam, Prime Minister Lawrence Wong, Senior Minister Lee Hsien Loong and Emeritus Senior Minister Goh Chok Tong. I will also meet with leaders of the Singapore’s vibrant business community," he said.
"I look forward to my discussions to deepen our Strategic Partnership with Singapore, particularly in new and emerging areas of advanced manufacturing, digitalization, and sustainable development," Modi said.
Modi said both the nations are part of India's Act East Policy and the Indo-Pacific Vision. India-Brunei relationship
Diplomatic relations between India and Brunei Darussalam were established on 10 May 1984.
Indian Mission in Brunei Darussalam was established on 18 May 1993.
Before this, the Indian Mission in Kuala Lumpur was concurrently accredited to Brunei Darussalam.

"Brunei Darussalam’s resident High Commission was established in India on 12 August 1992, headed by an Acting High Commissioner," read a statement issued by the Ministry of External Affairs.
Prior to that, Brunei Darussalam's High Commissioner in Malaysia, was concurrently accredited to India.
Brunei Darussalam and India share close relations based on their strong traditional & cultural linkages and common membership of UN, NAM, Commonwealth, ASEAN etc.
