No relief for Kangana Ranaut's Emergency as Bombay HC refuses to direct CBFC for certification
India Blooms News Service
04 Sep 2024, 03:02 pm
20240904
https://www.indiablooms.com/news-details/N/99580/no-relief-for-kangana-ranaut-s-emergency-as-bombay-hc-refuses-to-direct-cbfc-for-certification.html
The High Court has refused to ask the Central Board of Film Certification (CBFC) to issue a certificate to the makers citing a Madhya Pradesh High Court order.
Despite the court setback, Kangana Ranaut, a Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) MP from Himachal Pradesh's Mandi, claimed on X, "High court has blasted censor for illegally withholding the cirtificate of #emergency."
Today I have become everyone’s favourite target, this is the price you pay for awakening this sleeping nation, they don’t know what I am talking about they have no clue why I am so concerned, because they want peace, they don’t want to take sides. They are cool, you know…
The film faced a setback after a top gurdwara body Shiromani Gurdwara Parbandhak Committee (SGPC) sent a legal notice to the producers of Emergency, citing the film's misrepresentation of the history of Sikhs.
It demanded the removal of the objectionable scenes that will hurt Sikh sentiments.
The Centre Monday said 'religious sentiments can't be hurt' as they explained the reason for postponing the release date of Kangana Ranaut-starrer Emergency, media reports said.
"Few religious organisations have raised concerns about this. Religious sentiments cannot be hurt. There is some sensitive content in the movie," NDTV quoting sources.
"The government is taking it (the concerns) seriously," they added.
Meri film mein sabse important hai desh bhakti ka gaana 🙂 Here it is.. pic.twitter.com/PlLblEuQRY
Emergency, in which Kangana Ranaut portrays former Indian Prime Minister Indira Gandhi, was initially scheduled to be released on September 6.
However, the release date was postponed multiple times earlier.
Kangana, who is herself the director, writer, and co-producer of 'Emergency', earlier termed the postponing of the film's release over such objections as "hugely demotivating and unjust".
