Israeli minister calls for 'declaration of war' on Palestinians in West Bank
Iran Press TV
_
20240903
https://www.globalsecurity.org/military/library/news/2024/09/mil-240902-presstv02.htm

Iran Press TV
Monday, 02 September 2024 6:32 PM
A far-right Israeli minister has called on the regime authorities to declare a state of war across the occupied West Bank.
"I believe that, at the end of the day, the sin of the disengagement will be reversed," Orit Strock, the Israeli minister of settlement, told Israeli Channel 7 on Monday.
She suggested this would require going to war. "Sadly, a return to the Gaza Strip will involve many casualties."
Strock has been at the forefront of the movement calling for the ethnic cleansing of the Palestinians from Gaza to settle Israelis.
In July 2023, before the current Israeli campaign of genocide in Gaza started, she called for launching a war on Gaza to retake the strip and rebuild settlements, including Gush Katif, which was evacuated in 2005.
Earlier this week, the Israeli military launched its largest incursion into the occupied West Bank in decades, as its forces invaded Jenin, Tulkarem, and Tuba.
In Tulkarm, north of the West Bank, widespread destruction has been reported as several bulldozers accompanied by troops entered the city from the west.
The bulldozers are destroying the city's infrastructure, property and roads. Two hospitals have been besieged by Israeli forces preventing those injured from receiving medical treatment.
Also in the city of Jenin, bulldozers are razing structures, roads and sidewalks.
The regime forces are threatening members of press with shooting and confiscating their news gathering gears in Ramallah and al-Khalil.
Violence by settlers and raids by Israeli forces have surged in the West Bank since Israel launched its barbaric military campaign in the besieged Gaza Strip in early October 2023.
Palestinian human rights organizations have warned of escalating violence in the West Bank and the use of tactics by Israeli forces that the world has witnessed in the genocidal campaign in Gaza.
In a landmark opinion on July 19, the International Court of Justice declared Israel's decades-long occupation of Palestinian land unlawful and demanded the evacuation of all settlements in the West Bank and East al-Quds.


