Xi Jinping Meets with Comorian President Azali Assoumani
Ministry of Foreign Affairs, the People's Republic of China
_
20240903
https://www.globalsecurity.org/wmd/library/news/china/2024/09/china-240902-prc-mofa02.htm

Ministry of Foreign Affairs, the People's Republic of China
Updated: September 02, 2024 21:52
On the morning of September 2, 2024, President Xi Jinping met with Comorian President Azali Assoumani, who is in China for the Beijing Summit of the Forum on China-Africa Cooperation (FOCAC), at the Great Hall of the People in Beijing. The two heads of state announced the elevation of the China-Comoros relationship to a strategic partnership.
Xi Jinping pointed out that China was the first country to establish diplomatic relations with the Comoros, and next year will mark the 50th anniversary of the establishment of diplomatic relations between the two countries. The two countries have firmly supported each other politically and achieved fruitful results in practical cooperation in various fields, setting a fine example of equality, solidarity and cooperation between countries of different sizes. Although China and the Comoros are far apart, the people of the two countries share the same aspiration for a better life. Xi Jinping said that he heard that the Chinese TV series "Minning Town" was recently aired in the Comoros. China is ready to carry out cooperation with the Comoros in poverty reduction, support the Comorian people in turning their geographical advantages and marine resources into momentum for development, and continue the cooperative partnership as the "Minning Town" has shown to build a China-Comoros community with a shared future. China is ready to continue to cooperate with the Comoros to implement the rapid malaria eradication program and help the Comoros achieve the goal of "eradicating malaria by 2025" at an early date. The two sides should take this summit as an opportunity to expand practical cooperation in such areas as economy, trade, investment, infrastructure, marine fisheries and climate change, and inject new momentum into the development of bilateral relations.
Xi Jinping appreciated the positive role the Comoros played during its rotating chairmanship of the African Union. He pointed out that China is ready to work with the Comoros to uphold the Five Principles of Peaceful Coexistence, enhance communication and coordination within the frameworks of the African Union, the League of Arab States and the Organisation of Islamic Cooperation, strengthen the emerging forces of the "Global South" and promote the reform of the global governance system.
Azali Assoumani thanked the Chinese side for the fraternal friendly reception and congratulated China on the successful convening of the Third Plenary Session of the 20th CPC Central Committee. He expressed the belief that under the leadership of President Xi Jinping, China will surely make greater achievements in development. The vision of building a community with a shared future for mankind, the Belt and Road Initiative and the three global initiatives put forward by President Xi Jinping are crucial to promoting the world in realizing peace, development and common prosperity, and the Comoros fully supports them. The Comoros is ready to consolidate and enhance friendly relations with China and make bilateral relations a model for Africa-China cooperation. He expressed the belief that this FOCAC summit will further boost the development of African countries. The Comoros supports China in safeguarding national sovereignty and territorial integrity, and supports China in achieving national reunification. The Comoros believes that Taiwan is bound to return to China. He thanked China for supporting the Comoros in performing its rotating chairmanship of the African Union and expressed willingness to work with the Chinese side for closer communication and coordination within multilateral frameworks, promote developing countries to strengthen solidarity and cooperation, and resolve regional conflicts through dialogue.
During the summit, China and the Comoros will sign bilateral cooperation documents covering such areas as economy, trade and development.
Wang Yi was present at the meeting.


