Ukraine launches mass drone attack on Russia
Iran Press TV
_
20240902
https://www.globalsecurity.org/wmd/library/news/ukraine/2024/09/ukraine-240901-presstv01.htm

Iran Press TV
Sunday, 01 September 2024 3:03 PM
Ukraine's military has launched a massive drone attack on Russia as Russian troops take more Ukrainian territory.
Ukrainian forces overnight on Saturday leading to Sunday, launched one of their biggest drone attacks against Russia since the full-scale war began in 2022.
The Ukrainian drones targeted Russia's energy infrastructure, including power plants and an oil refinery.
The assault caused fires at several facilities, including in Moscow.
Officials said dozens of the Ukrainian drones were shot down.
On Sunday, Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelenskiy pleaded on Telegram for "a decision on long-range strikes on missile launch sites in Russia, destruction of Russian military logistics, joint shooting down of missiles and drones."
In addition to military and intelligence aid, Kiev seeks more support from the West, insisting on full-out engagement on the field, joint operations and permission to use its Western-supplied warplanes, weapons and ammunition to strike targets deep inside Russian soil.
On the opposite side, Russian officials said its military air defense units had destroyed 158 drones launched by Ukraine overnight, and that debris caused fires at the Moscow Oil Refinery and the Konakovo Power Station in the neighboring Tver region.
The strikes prompted military offices to put temporary restrictions in place at Moscow's Vnukovo, Domodedovo and Zhukovsky airports overnight.
The restrictions were lifted on Sunday morning, according to aviation watchdog Rosaviatsia.
On the frontline, military officials said on Sunday that Russian troops had made further advances towards a key town in eastern Ukraine.
Meanwhile, Russian troops are pressing forward in eastern Ukraine while pushing out Ukrainian forces that broke through its western border in a surprise incursion on Aug. 6.
Ukraine had hoped that its surprise incursion into Russia's Kursk region launched last month would force Russia to re-deploy troops and take the pressure off besieged forces in the east, but so far it does not appear to have had the desired effect.
Russia's defense ministry said on Sunday its forces had captured two more settlements in the Donetsk region, including Ptyche, just 21 km southeast of Pokrovsk, and were "continuing to advance deep into the enemy defenses."
Russian forces also seized the settlement of Vyimka, it said.
Two-and-a-half years have passed since the conflict gained steam and turned into a full-fledged war between the two neighboring countries, leaving a multitude of casualties on both sides.
Russia launched a special military operation in Ukraine on February 24, 2022, aiming to liberate the Donbas region where the People's republics of Donetsk and Lugansk had been living under regular attacks from the forces under the command of Kiev's new neo-Nazi leaders.


