US voices impatience with Taliban over morality law targeting Afghan women
_
_
20240905
https://www.globalsecurity.org/military/library/news/2024/09/mil-240904-voa04.htm
By Ayaz Gul September 04, 2024
An American diplomat has condemned the Taliban's new morality law in Afghanistan, warning that it "aims to complete the erasure of women from public life."
Rina Amiri, the United States special envoy for Afghan women, girls, and human rights, posted on social media late Tuesday that she raised concerns about the law during her recent meetings with counterparts in Qatar and the United Arab Emirates.
"My message was clear: Our support for the Afghan people remains steadfast, but patience with the Taliban is running out," Amiri wrote on X, formerly known as Twitter. "The way to legitimacy domestically & internationally is respecting the rights of the Afghan people."
The U.S. warning comes days after the Taliban's supreme leader, Hibatullah Akhundzada, enacted the contentious decree that orders Afghan women not to speak aloud in public and cover their bodies and faces entirely when outdoors.
The 114-page, 35-article law also outlines various actions and specific conduct that the Taliban government, called the Islamic Emirate, considers mandatory or prohibited for Afghan men and women in line with its strict interpretation of Islam.
The legal document empowers the Ministry for Promoting Virtue and Preventing Vice, which the Taliban revived after coming back to power in August 2021, to enforce it strictly.
Enforcers are empowered to discipline offenders, and penalties may include anything from a verbal warning to fines to imprisonment. The law requires them to prevent "evils" such as adultery, extramarital sex, lesbianism, taking pictures of living objects and befriending non-Muslims.
Official Taliban media quoted Akhundzada this week as ordering authorities to "rigorously enforce" the new vice and virtue decree across Afghanistan "to bring the people closer to the Islamic system."
The law was enacted amid extensive restrictions on Afghan women's education and employment opportunities.
Since regaining power three years ago, the Taliban have prohibited girls ages 12 and older from continuing their education beyond the sixth grade and restricted women from seeking employment, except in certain sectors such as health.
Afghan females are not allowed to visit parks and other public places, and a male guardian must accompany them on road trips or air travel.
The United Nations promptly responded to the new law last month, condemning it as a "distressing vision" for the impoverished country's future and urging de facto authorities to reverse it.
The Taliban government, which is officially not recognized by any country, has dismissed U.N.-led foreign criticism as offensive.
Zabihullah Mujahid, the chief Taliban spokesperson, asserted that "non-Muslims should first educate themselves about Islamic laws and respect Islamic values" before expressing concerns or rejecting the law. "We find it blasphemous to our Islamic Sharia when objections are raised without understanding it," he said.


