Further boost to Australia's nuclear-powered submarine workforce
_
_
20240902
https://www.globalsecurity.org/wmd/library/news/australia/2024/australia-240902-australia-pm01.htm
Media release  Monday 2 September 2024
Prime Minister Anthony Albanese  The Hon Anthony Albanese MP  Prime Minister of Australia
The Hon Richard Marles MP  Deputy Prime Minister  Minister for Defence
The Hon Pat Conroy MP  Minister for International Development and the Pacific  Minister for Defence Industry and Capability Delivery
The   Albanese Government is today announcing a new Jobs for Subs program for   200 young workers required to make Submarine Rotational Force - West   (SRF-W) a success.
The Nuclear-Powered Submarine Graduate,   Apprenticeship and Traineeship initiative is a Government-funded   recruitment and upskilling program for graduates, apprentices and   trainees within ASC Pty Ltd.
This initiative from the Albanese   Government will allow the ASC Pty Ltd to recruit around 200 additional   entry-level personnel over the next two years across high priority   disciplines and trades essential to the nuclear-powered submarine   enterprise, building the workforce we need in the west to sustain and   maintain Australia's future nuclear-powered submarines.
These   roles, predominantly in Western Australia, span fabrication and   machining, engineering and project management, and supply chain and   operations qualifications.
As Australia's sovereign submarine   partner for sustainment of our nuclear-powered submarines, ASC Pty Ltd   plays a critical role in developing the required skills, workforce,   knowledge and capability. This initiative seeks to enhance the ability   to attract entry-level personnel to critical skills and career pathways,   retain valued personnel at entry-levels and grow the workforce   available across the Defence industry.
Already, the Albanese   Government has committed to invest up to $8 billion in infrastructure to   enable SFR-W from 2027 and to operate Australia's own Virginia class   conventionally armed, nuclear‑powered submarines from the early 2030s.
Across   Australia, the nuclear-powered submarine program is expected to create   around 20,000 highly skilled jobs for Australians for decades to come,   including supporting around 3,000 jobs in the west alone.
Over the   last two weeks, ASC Pty Ltd has been developing Australia's sovereign   sustainment workforce, in support of the Submarine Tendered Maintenance   Period (SMTP) currently underway at HMAS Stirling.
The STMP is an   important milestone in the pathway by which Australia will acquire a   nuclear-powered submarine capability and is the first time Australian   personnel have directly participated in the maintenance of a   nuclear-powered submarine in Australia.
During the STMP, Royal   Australian Navy personnel have been directly participating in   maintenance work on USS Hawaii (SSN 776), a Virginia class submarine, at   HMAS Stirling.
In addition, workers from ASC Pty Ltd are   providing essential support services to USS Hawaii, and are observing   maintenance activities to continue their learning.
During this STMP, no active radiological work is being conducted and no low level radiological material will leave the US ships.
Today's   announcement builds on the more than 4,000 additional Commonwealth   supported university places the Albanese Government announced and the   work we are doing with the states and territories to grow the skilled   workforces we need.
The Albanese Government is investing in the   workforce we need to deliver Australia's nuclear-powered submarines and a   future made in Australia.
"It   is an honour to visit HMAS Stirling and see the finest of Australia's   workforce becoming stronger through the strength of the AUKUS   partnership.
"We are announcing a new graduate, apprenticeship and   traineeship program to train an additional 200 West Australians to work   on Submarine Rotational Force- West program.
"We want to keep   Australians safe. That's why WA will play a key role in building AUKUS.   This will help promote peace and deterrence in the region and support   local jobs."
"Today's   announcement is another important step in growing the workforce to be   equipped with the skills and training we need to acquire Australia's   nuclear-powered submarines.
"We welcome the crews of USS Hawaii   and USS Emory S. Land to Western Australia, for this milestone. We   welcome our US friends to our shores, and welcome home the Australians   that have been embedded with them.
"We are seeing during this   visit the first Australian personnel participating in the maintenance of   a US nuclear-powered submarine at HMAS Stirling, the home of Australian   submarines."
"This   is a further boost to the development of ASC's sustainment workforce   and follows the first cohort of workers departing for training at Pearl   Harbour Naval Shipyard in July.
"Australian industry is integral   not only to Australia's nuclear-powered submarine program, but also to   supporting the future building, sustainment and maintenance of the   submarines of our AUKUS partners.
"We are seeing real progress   being made to develop the workforce of thousands of highly-skilled   scientists, engineers, project managers, operators, technicians,   welders, construction workers, electricians, metal fitters and builders   that will be needed to support this nation-building endeavour."



