Justice Department Disrupts Covert Russian Government-Sponsored Foreign Malign Influence Operation Targeting Audiences in the United States and Elsewhere
_
_
20240905
https://www.globalsecurity.org/intell/library/news/2024/intell-240904-doj01.htm
Wednesday, September 4, 2024
For Immediate Release  Office of Public Affairs
Influence   Operation Relied on Influencers, AI-Generated Content, Paid Social Media   Advertisements, and Social Media Accounts to Drive Internet Traffic to   Cybersquatted and Other Domains
Note: View the affidavit here.
The Justice Department today announced the ongoing seizure of 32   internet domains used in Russian government-directed foreign malign   influence campaigns colloquially referred to as "Doppelganger," in   violation of U.S. money laundering and criminal trademark laws. As   alleged in an unsealed affidavit, the Russian companies Social Design   Agency (SDA), Structura National Technology (Structura), and ANO Dialog,   operating under the direction and control of the Russian Presidential   Administration, and in particular First Deputy Chief of Staff of the   Presidential Executive Office Sergei Vladilenovich Kiriyenko, used these   domains, among others, to covertly spread Russian government propaganda   with the aim of reducing international support for Ukraine, bolstering   pro-Russian policies and interests, and influencing voters in U.S. and   foreign elections, including the U.S. 2024 Presidential Election.
In conjunction with the domain seizures, the U.S. Treasury Department announced the designation of   10 individuals and two entities as part of a coordinated response to   Russia's malign influence efforts targeting the 2024 U.S. presidential   election. This announcement follows the designation of actors involved   in Doppelganger announced by the Treasury Department in March.
"The Justice Department is seizing 32 internet domains that the   Russian government and Russian government-sponsored actors have used to   engage in a covert campaign to interfere in and influence the outcome of   our country's elections," said Attorney General Merrick B. Garland. "As   alleged in our court filings, President Vladimir Putin's inner circle,   including Sergei Kiriyenko, directed Russian public relations companies   to promote disinformation and state-sponsored narratives as part of a   campaign to influence the 2024 U.S. Presidential Election. An internal   planning document created by the Kremlin states that a goal of the   campaign is to secure Russia's preferred outcome in the election. The   sites we are seizing today were filled with Russian government   propaganda that had been created by the Kremlin to reduce international   support for Ukraine, bolster pro-Russian policies and interests, and   influence voters in the United States and other countries. Our actions   today make clear that the Justice Department will be aggressive in   countering and disrupting attempts by the Russian government, or any   other malign actor, to interfere in our elections and undermine our   democracy."
"The Department's seizure of 32 internet domains secretly deployed to   spread foreign malign influence demonstrates once again that Russia   remains a predominant foreign threat to our elections," said Deputy   Attorney General Lisa Monaco. "At Putin's direction, Russian companies   SDA, Structura, and ANO Dialog used cybersquatting, fabricated   influencers, and fake profiles to covertly promote AI-generated false   narratives on social media. Those narratives targeted specific American   demographics and regions in a calculated effort to subvert our election.   Our republic depends on elections that are free from foreign   interference, and we will not rest in our efforts to expose foreign   malign influence operations and protect our democracy, without fear or   favor."
"Today's announcement exposes the scope of the Russian government's   influence operations and their reliance on cutting-edge AI to sow   disinformation," said FBI Director Christopher Wray. "Companies   operating at the direction of the Russian government created websites to   trick Americans into unwittingly consuming Russian propaganda.  By   seizing these websites, the FBI is making clear to the world what they   are, Russian attempts to interfere in our elections and influence our   society.  The FBI will continue to work with our partners to expose and   shutdown these covert influence campaigns."
"This seizure illustrates vividly what the U.S. government and   private sector partners have warned for months: the Russian government   and its proxies are aggressively accelerating the Kremlin's covert   efforts to seed false stories and amplify disinformation directed at the   American public," said Assistant Attorney General Matthew G. Olsen of   the Justice Department's National Security Division. "Today's   announcement reveals Russia is willing to impersonate our free and open   press in its egregious schemes. This is our third disruption of Russian   foreign malign influence operations in two months, and the Justice   Department remains relentless in protecting Americans from such   unacceptable conduct. To Russia, and any other government seeking to   stoke discord in our society: know that we will spare no effort and use   every available tool to disrupt and expose this malign activity and   defend our democratic institutions."
"Protecting our democratic processes from foreign malign influence is   paramount to ensure enduring public trust," said U.S. Attorney   Jacqueline C. Romero for the Eastern District of Pennsylvania. "As   America's adversaries continue to spew propaganda and disinformation   towards the American electorate, we'll use every tool at our disposal to   expose and dismantle their insidious foreign influence campaigns."
The propaganda did not identify, and in fact purposefully obfuscated,   the Russian government or its agents as the source of the content. The   perpetrators extensively utilized "cybersquatted" domains, a method of   registering a domain intended to mimic another person or company's   website (e.g., registering washingtonpost.pm to mimic washingtonpost.com),   to publish Russian government messaging falsely presented as content   from legitimate news media organizations. In other instances, the   perpetrators sought to create their own unique media brands to promote   Doppelganger content (e.g., Recent Reliable News). Among the   methods Doppelganger used to drive viewership to the cybersquatted and   unique media domains was the deployment of "influencers" worldwide, paid   social media advertisements (in some cases created using artificial   intelligence tools), and the creation of social media profiles posing as   U.S. (or other non-Russian) citizens to post comments on social media   platforms with links to the cybersquatted domains, all of which   attempted to trick viewers into believing they were being directed to a   legitimate news media outlet's website.
Overview
The affidavit describes the perpetrators' own internal strategy   meeting notes, project proposals, and other records obtained during the   course of the investigation. Several notable propaganda project   proposals directed against the United States included:
Doppelganger's foreign malign influence efforts were not directed   solely against audiences in the United States. Other targets of the   perpetrators' propaganda included Germany, Mexico, and Israel, among   others. Doppelganger's influence campaigns sought to influence the   citizenry of those countries to support Russian government objectives,   including by undermining the United States' relationship with those   countries.
Doppelganger's use of the U.S.-based domain names at the direction   and control of, and for the benefit of, sanctioned persons, including   Sergei Vladilenovich Kiriyenko, SDA, and Structura, violates the   International Emergency Economic Powers Act (IEEPA). As a result, the   accompanying payments for Doppelganger's online infrastructure violate   federal money laundering laws. In addition, Doppelganger's publication   of content on cybersquatted domains with names and content that mimic   legitimate media outlets violates federal criminal trademark laws   because those domains feature trademarks registered on the Principal   Register maintained by the U.S. Patent and Trademark Office.
The FBI Philadelphia Field Office is investigating the case.
The U.S. Attorney's Office for the Eastern District of Pennsylvania,   the National Security Division's Counterintelligence and Export Control   Section and National Security Cyber Section are prosecuting the case,   with valuable assistance from the Criminal Division's Computer Crime and   Intellectual Property Section.
Topic: National Security
Components: Office of the Attorney General  Federal Bureau of Investigation (FBI)  National Security Division (NSD)  Office of the Deputy Attorney General  USAO - Pennsylvania, Eastern
Press Release Number: 24-1095



