Botswana to hold elections October 30 as President Masisi seeks 2nd term
_
_
20240904
https://www.globalsecurity.org/military/library/news/2024/09/mil-240903-voa05.htm
By Mqondisi Dube September 03, 2024
Botswana, Africa's longest democracy, will hold its general election on October 30, President Mokgweetsi Masisi announced Tuesday. Masisi will seek a second and final term after his ruling party endorsed his candidacy over the weekend.
In a public address, Masisi said Botswana will continue with its long-standing principle of holding regular elections. Masisi's ruling Botswana Democratic Party has been in power since independence from Britain in 1966.
"The constitution of the Republic of Botswana mandates that we, as a nation, hold general elections every five years," Masisi said. "This is not just a legal obligation but a fundamental principle that underpins our democracy, a commitment we have honored, and we will continue to honor in the future."
The president urged voters to turn out in large numbers after previous elections in 2019 experienced voter apathy and low turnout.
Out of a target of 80% set by the country's electoral body, the Independent Electoral Commission registered only 63% of the eligible voters.
Masisi declared October 30 and 31 as public holidays to encourage citizens to vote.
Masisi is seeking a second term, which would be his final one, if he is reelected. The president is allowed two terms in office, according to the constitution
The BDP's main threat is from a coalition of parties, the Umbrella for Democratic Change, or UDC, and the Botswana Congress Party, which has broken away from the opposition alliance.
UDC spokesperson Moeti Mohwasa said they expected the announcement of the election date to come earlier.
"We welcome the date. However, it is regrettable that such an announcement is made at such short notice," Mohwasa said. "We would have liked a situation whereby the date of elections is announced well in advance, but what we are happy with is that after so much suffering under the BDP rule, this will come to an end on October 30."
Mohwasa said the election should be free and fair after his party alleged rigging in the previous poll, claims that were dismissed in court. The ruling party also denied the allegations.
Leonard Sesa, a political analyst at the University of Botswana, said it was right for the president to make the election date public as concerns over a delay were mounting.
"We were going to get worried if it was going to be postponed," Sesa said. "Remember, we are talking about a beacon of shining democracy in Africa. Small things matter when gauging democracy. So, issuing a writ to say October 30, we are on the right track."
Sesa said political parties are not yet ready for the election as they are still battling to field candidates in all constituencies.
"There was a delay for political parties to conduct their intra-party primary elections, within the political parties themselves, and people were worried," he said. "There are some constituencies that all the political parties including the ruling party, have not posted anyone to stand."
In the previous election, the BDP secured a comfortable victory, where its share of the popular vote increased from 47% in 2014 to 53% five years later.


