Defence Minister Jana Černochová met with her Swedish counterpart
Ministry of Defence & Armed Forces of the Czech Republic
_
20240905
https://www.globalsecurity.org/military/library/news/2024/09/mil-240904-czechmdfa01.htm
Ministry of Defence & Armed Forces of the Czech Republic
4.9.2024  Author: by MoD Communication Department
Minister of Defence Jana Černochová held a meeting with her Swedish counterpart Minister Pål Jonson at the Defence Ministry. The Ministers signed a Joint Declaration on enhancement of defence cooperation between the Czech Republic and the Kingdom of Sweden. Both the declaration and the meeting agenda included participation of the Czech defence industry on the production on CV90 infantry fighting vehicles, further support for Ukraine and the future of the JAS-39 Gripen aircraft in the Czech Air Force.
The declaration defines key areas of cooperation, confirms its strategic significance and follows on the Memorandum of Understanding concluded between the Czech Republic and Sweden in 2002. "The signature of the Joint Declaration both confirms the strategic level of our partnership and also sends a clear signal of our intention to further enhance it," said Minister Černochová. "Sweden's accession to NATO also unlocks new possibilities of cooperation. We need to perceive it not only through the optics of Russian aggression against Ukraine but also in the long-term perspective. We shall focus on strengthening the interoperability of our units which would together defend NATO's Eastern Flank, added the Minister Černochová.
Regarding the support to Ukraine, Sweden is one of the countries that joined the Czech ammunition initiative designed to provide Ukraine with critically needed ammunition. "I very much appreciate Czech Republic's leading role in supporting Ukraine. I believe the Czech ammunition initiative can serve as a role model for our future aid to countries under attack," said Swedish Defence Minister Pål Jonson. Sweden also provided Ukraine with military materiel and is among one of its largest supporters from the perspective of volume of aid donated.
The discussion also included the acquisition of 246 CV90 infantry fighting vehicles. Minister Jonson appreciated the Czech Republic's decision to purchase the vehicles. Czech industries, which will participate in their production for the Czech Armed Forces, can later be included in production of the vehicles for other European countries. According to Minister Černochová, the participation of the Czech industry in the production of CV90 is key.
During the meeting, the Ministers also discussed continuation of the lease of JAS-39 Gripen aircraft for the Czech Air Force until the Czech Republic acquires the 5th generation F-35 aircraft. The current Gripen lease contract ends in 2027. The Ministry of Defence has received an offer from Sweden to extend the lease beyond 2027, but is not entirely satisfied with it.
"I cannot choose a specific example. Given that the negotiations are still ongoing, it would be neither correct nor tactical to publish details. That being said, we want to focus on the concept of the agreement as such and I believe I can mention that we also need a more detailed breakdown of the support and modernisation costs. The JAS-39 Gripen aircraft are nearing the last decade of their life cycle, maintenance costs are increasing and a costly modernisation is necessary. We answer to our tax payers and I want to be one hundred percent sure that the conditions for the Czech Republic are justifiable before the Government, as well as before the opposition and the Czech citizens," said Minister Černochová and added that she and her Swedish counterpart concurred that there is will to come to an agreement.


