Russo-Ukraine War - 03 September 2024 - Day 923
_
_
20240904
https://www.globalsecurity.org/military/world/war/russo-ukraine-2024-09-03.htm
A number of claims and counterclaims are being made on the Ukraine-Russia conflict on the ground and online. While GlobalSecurity.org takes utmost care to accurately report this news story, we cannot independently verify the authenticity of all statements, photos and videos.
On 24 February 2022, Ukraine was suddenly and deliberately attacked by land, naval and air forces of Russia, igniting the largest European war since the Great Patriotic War. Russian President Vladimir Putin announced a "special military operation" (SVO - spetsialnaya voennaya operatsiya) in Ukraine in response to the appeal of the leaders of the "Donbass republics" for help. That attack is a blatant violation of the territorial integrity, sovereignty and independence of Ukraine. Putin stressed that Moscow's goal is the demilitarization and denazification of the country. The military buildup in preceeding months makes it obvious that the unprovoked and dastardly Russian attack was deliberately planned long in advance. During the intervening time, the Russian government had deliberately sought to deceive the world by false statements and expressions of hope for continued peace.
"To initiate a war of aggression... is not only an international crime; it is the supreme international crime differing only from other war crimes in that it contains within itself the accumulated evil of the whole." [Judgment of the International Military Tribunal]
The UK Ministry of Defence  reported that as the school year begins across Russia, the Russian state is introducing and funding a new military training module. The module is part of a new programme called Foundations of Security and Defence of the Motherland for 15 to 18 year olds. The course has 11 modules, requiring 68 teaching hours. The course will cover a range of topics including combined arms combat and small arms familiarisation. It is aimed at "forming values, acquiring knowledge and skills that ensure readiness to fulfil the constitutional duty to protect the State."
The programme seeks to create and will likely result in a more militarised and security focused society. The new youth strategy which was approved by the government in August 2024 aims at raising the prestige of military service, instilling patriotism, and civic duty responsibility, but primarily prepare pre-conscription age teenagers mentally and physically for military service.
There is additionally an increase in the number of summer camps for children which engage in various military activities. The strategy notes that in the last 30 years youth values had shifted from collectivism to individualism and from statism to cosmopolitanism. It claims that the ideological expansionism of Russia's geopolitical competitors had led to the weakening of traditional values and growth of individualism. The new strategy aims to reverse that process, with the militarization of youth as an integral part of that process.
The General Staff of the Armed Forces of Ukraine reported that the Defense Forces of Ukraine continue to withhold the pressure of the Russian occupation troops. The situation in the Pokrovsk and Kurakhivsk directions remains tense - Russia is focusing the main offensive efforts there. In addition, the Russian occupiers are actively attacking the Lyman direction today.
193 combat encounters have taken place so far. Today, Russia launched two missile strikes with three rockets, 62 air strikes, dropping 81 KABs. In addition, Russian forces launched 555 kamikaze drones for strikes and carried out over 3000 shelling at the positions of Ukrainian troops and settlements.  In the Kharkiv direction, Russian terrorists twice unsuccessfully stormed the positions of Ukrainian units in the areas of Vovchansk and dropped one air bomb on Makarov and Male Vesele.  Eight times Russian forces attacked Ukrainian positions in the Kupâns Віkomu direction. Near the settlements of Sinkivka, Glushkivka and Berestove, the Defense Forces units repelled seven assaults. An ongoing battle in the area of Stelmahivki.  In the Lyman direction for today, Russian troops have attacked Ukrainian defenders 27 times in the areas of eight different settlements. Near Grekivka, Nevsky and Novosadovoye, the most clashes occurred - six, nine and five respectively.  Russian forces tried five times with assault actions to push Ukrainian defenders out of positions in the areas of Verkhnyokamiansky, Ivanodarivka and Spirny in the Siversky direction. Got a hard cut and walked away.  In the kramators маkomu direction Ukrainian warriors fought off seven attempts of Russian zagarbnikív to move forward. Concentrated the enemy of effort in the area of the time yar, and one attack spent in the areas of andriyivka and klí поíivka.  In the Toretsky direction, where the Russian invaders attacked 14 times Ukrainian positions near New York, Nelipivka, and Toretsk, 12 clashes are already completed. Fighting continues in the New York area.  The main efforts of the Russian enemy continue to focus on the Intercession Direction. Here, during this day, the Russian aggressor has attacked Ukrainian positions 60 times. The majority of the fights occurred in the areas of novogrodivka and mikhailivka. Twelve fights are still going on.  According to preliminary calculations, today the Russian occupiers in the Pokrovsky direction lost 155 soldiers killed and 220 wounded. Six cars and one MT-LB were destroyed. Ukrainian defenders also caused significant damage to six artsystems, three cars, one armored machine and a tank.  In the kurakhiv direction zagarbniki are also pretty active - at this time of the day 46 Russian attacks are recorded. Three of them going on. Mainly fighting lasted in the regions of Konstantinivka, Ukrainian and Georgievka. The Russian occupiers apply bronetehníku - destroyed ten bmp, one btr, three motorcycles and damaged a tank.  In the Vremivsky direction today, Russian forces attacked the front edge of Ukrainian defense 10 times in the direction of Vugledara, near Vodyany and Konstantinivka.  Six attacks of Russian zagarbnikív near robotinyo, small tokmački and novoandrívka were stopped in the oríhivsk direction.  In the Pridniprovsky directions towards the Russian units spent five unsuccessful attempts to break into the island zone.
Today, for effective combat work, we celebrate the soldiers of the 24 separate mechanized brigade of King Danilo.
Defense Forces of Ukraine continue operations in the Kursk direction.
The Ministry of Defense of the Russian Federation  reported that the Sever Group of Forces in Volchansk, Bryansk, and Liptsy directions defeated formations of 36th Marine Brigade, 103rd and 114th territorial defence brigades near Liptsy, Dergachi, and Vochlansk (Kharkov region).
The AFU losses amounted to over 150 troops, a tank, an armoured fighting vehicle, three motor vehicles, and a 122-mm Grad MLRS combat vehicle.
The Zapad Group of Forces improved tactical situation, engaged manpower and military hardware of 14th, 44th, and 116th mechanised brigades of the AFU and 117th Territorial Defence Brigade near Kupyansk, Petropavlovka (Kharkov region), Torskoye (Donetsk People's Republic), and Serebryansky Forestry. One counter-attack launched by an assault detachment of the AFU 30th Mechanised Brigade was repelled.
The AFU losses amounted to up to 450 troops, two motor vehicles, a Polish-made 155-mm Krab self-propelled artillery system, a UK-made 155-mm FH-70 howitzer, and two 152-mm D-20 howitzers.
Nine AFU field ammunition depots were destroyed.
The Yug Group of Forces continues to advance into the enemy's defence, hit formations of 24th, 32nd, 100th, 117th, mechanised brigades, 46th Airmobile Brigade, 10th Assault Brigade of the AFU, and 116th Territorial Defence Brigade near Zvanovka, Predtechino, Grigorovka, Chasov Yar, and Belaya Gora (Donetsk People's Republic).
The enemy lost up to 710 troops, six motor vehicles, a U.S.-made 155-mm Paladin self-propelled artillery system, a U.S.-made 155-mm M777 howitzer, a 152-mm Akatsiya self-propelled artillery system, and a 122-mm D-30 howitzer.
The enemy lost five field ammunition depots and an Anklav-N EW station.
The Tsentr Group of Forces continues to advance into the enemy's defence, struck formations of 31st and 53rd mechanised brigades, 142nd Infantry Brigade, 95th Air Assault Brigade of the AFU, 109th Territorial Defence Brigade near Druzhba, Panteleymonovka, Rozovka, Selidovo, Grodovka, and Zavetnoye (Donetsk People's Republic). Seven counter-attacks of AFU 59th Motorised Infantry Brigade, 144th Infantry Brigade, 25th AirBorne Brigade of the AFU, 12th and 14th national guard brigades were repelled.
The enemy lost up to 490 servicemen, four armoured fighting vehicles, three pickups, a U.S.-made 155-mm Paladin self-propelled artillery system, and a 122-mm D-30 howitzer.
The Vostok Group of Forces seized more favourable positions, engaged formations of 31st, 72nd mechanised brigades of the AFU, 129th Territorial Defence Brigade near Bogatyr, Vodyanoye, and Ugledar (Donetsk People's Republic). Three counter-attacks launched by assault detachments of the AFU 72nd Mechanised Brigade were repelled.
The enemy's losses amounted to up to 150 troops, three motor vehicles, and two Polish-made 155-mm Krab self-propelled artillery systems.
The units of the Dnepr Group of Forces hit manpower and materiel clusters of 128th Mountain Assault Brigade, 141st Infantry Brigade of the AFU, 37th Marine Brigade, and 39th Coastal Defence Brigade near Novodanilovka (Zaporozhye region), Berislav, Tokarevka, and Kazatskoye (Kherson region).
The AFU losses were up to 60 troops, two motor vehicles, and a 152-mm Msta-B howitzer.
Operational-Tactical Aviation, UAVs, Missile Troops and Artillery of the Russian Federation Groups of forces destroyed an aircraft armament depot, hit manpower and materiel clusters in 149 areas.
Air defence units shot down a MiG-29 aircraft of the Ukrainian Air Force, three U.S.-made HIMARS MLRS projectiles and 37 unmanned aerial vehicles.
In total, 642 airplanes and 283 helicopters, 30,987 unmanned aerial vehicles, 575 air defence missile systems, 17,811 tanks and other armoured fighting vehicles, 1,435 combat vehicles equipped with MLRS, 13,985 field artillery guns and mortars, as well as 25,539 units of support motor vehicles have been destroyed during the special military operation.
The Ministry of Defense of the Russian Federation also reported that over the past 24 hours, units of the Sever Group of Forces supported by Army Aviation and artillery repelled five attacks launched by the enemy's assault detachments in the direction of Borki, Maryevka, Kamyshchevka, and Cherkasskoye Porechnoye. The AFU attempts to launch attacks in the direction of Komarovka, Korenevo, Olgovka were thwarted. The AFU losses were up to 25 troops killed and wounded, two armoured fighting vehicles, and three motor vehicles.   Aviation and artillery strikes, and troops inflicted losses on manpower and materiel clusters of 22nd, 61st mechanised brigades, 80th, 82nd, and 95th air assault brigades, 152nd Jaeger Brigade, 1st National Guard Brigade, and 1004th Security and Service Brigade near Apanasovka, Borki, Vishnyovka, Viktorovka, Gordeyevka, Kositsa, Krasnooktyabrskoye, Knyazhy Pervy, Kurilovka, Lyubimovka, Martynovka, Mikhailovka, Malaya Loknya, Novovivanovka, Orlovka, Plekhovo, and Snagost.   The Armed Forces of the Russian Federation continue reconnaissance and search operations in forestry areas to locate and eliminate enemy sabotage groups attempting to get to the depth of the Russian territory.   Operational-Tactical Aviation delivered strikes in Sumy region at concentration areas of manpower and military hardware reserves of the 22nd, 41st, 61st mechanised brigades, 80th and 82nd air assault brigades, 92nd Assault Brigaded of the AFU 101st, 103rd, 119th, 129th territorial defence brigades, and 1st, 17th national guard brigades near Belopolye, Vorozhba, Velikaya Pisarevka, Glukhov, Miropolye, Novaya Sech, Novoivanovka, Pavlovka, Pustogorod, Pogrebki, Starye Verki, Stukalovka, Sumy, Khoten, and Yunakovka.
In the past 24 hours, the AFU losses amounted to up to 400 troops and 12 armoured vehicles, three artillery guns, an MLRS launcher, a SAM launch vehicle, an EW station, 12 motor vehicles, and two engineering vehicles.
Since the beginning of hostilities in Kursk region, the AFU losses were over 9,300 troops, 80 tanks, 38 infantry fighting vehicles, 70 armoured personnel carriers, 561 armoured fighting vehicles, 273 motor vehicles, 68 artillery guns, 20 multiple-launch rocket system launchers, including six of HIMARS MLRS and two of U.S.-made MLRS, eight SAM launchers, two transport-loading vehicles, 17 EW stations, seven counter-battery radars, two air defence radars, eight engineering vehicles as well as two counterobstacle vehicles and one UR-77 mine clearing vehicle.
The operation to neutralise the AFU units is in progress.




