Foreign Ministry statement on the terrorist attack against Belgorod by the Ukrainian Nazis
_
_
20240901
https://www.globalsecurity.org/wmd/library/news/ukraine/2024/08/ukraine-240831-russia-mfa01.htm
31 August 2024 13:10  1600-31-08-2024
Zelensky's neo-Nazi junta continues to terrorise civilians in Russia. On the evening of August 30, its fighters perpetrated yet another crime by using Vampire, a Czech-made multiple rocket launcher, to shell Belgorod and its suburbs with cluster munitions. This barbaric strike left five civilians dead and 46 wounded, including seven minors. One child is in a critical condition and has already undergone surgery. Two adult patients are on their way to Moscow for medical treatment. Residential buildings and other civilian sites have been damaged in the attack.
The Foreign Ministry sincerely mourns the victims and wishes the wounded a speedy recovery.
Russia's Investigative Committee launched a criminal investigation into the attack by the Ukrainian Armed Forces against Belgorod and the Belgorodsky District as per Article 205 of the Criminal Code of the Russian Federation (terrorist attack). It is gathering information regarding the circumstances of the attack. All those who plotted and carried out this and other crimes perpetrated by the Kiev junta will face inevitable punishment under the law.
There is no doubt that this terrorist attack was designed to sow fear among people and was carefully planned well in advance. Once again, the Kiev clique demonstrated its Nazi essence - just like eight decades ago, during the Nazi invasion, today's followers of the Nazis and Bandera continue killing innocent people.
Just as back then, the supposedly civilised and enlightened West world, which in reality supports the Nazis, turns a blind eye to their bloody atrocities while also delivering lethal weapons to the cynical killers it nurtured. NATO-made missiles brought all this suffering, fires and destruction to the Belgorod Region. The name of these missiles, Vampire, is quite telling. The Ukrainian Nazis and their Western masters, the bloodsuckers of the 21st century, must recall the lessons of history and seriously consider about the disrepute and infamy the European fascists and their Banderite accomplices had to face at the end of their life's journey in May 1945.
Once again, we call on the responsible governments and the relevant international structures to firmly condemn this outrageous terrorist attack and to distance themselves in public from the Kiev regime and its Western curators who commit these crimes. Staying silent in the face of this rampant manifestations of barbarism by the Ukrainian Nazis and their puppeteers and accomplices representing the so-called civilised democracies will be akin to assisting them in their bloody acts.
All this senseless and cruel shelling targeting residential neighbourhoods in Donbass, the Belgorod, Kursk, Kherson and Zaporozhye regions, Crimea and other Russian regions, as well as the merciless killings of civilians - all this testifies to  the agony of the criminal Zelensky regime. It has been mired in terrorist, illegal, corrupt and cynical practices. All it seeks in its impotent rage is to kill as many Russians as possible.
However, no matter how hard it tries, its efforts will be vain and doomed to fail. People living in these Russian regions have demonstrated their courage and resilience by staying calm and reserved, while the Armed Forces of the Russian Federation are ready to promptly respond to any crime by the Ukrainian militants.
The special military operation will carry on until it reaches all its objectives, including de-Nazification and demilitarisation of Ukraine.



