Ankara-Damascus rapprochement in both nations' interests: Turkish defense minister
Iran Press TV
_
20240901
https://www.globalsecurity.org/military/library/news/2024/08/mil-240831-presstv04.htm

Iran Press TV
Saturday, 31 August 2024 1:21 PM
Turkish Defense Minister Yasar Guler has expressed satisfaction with the process of rapprochement and restoration of diplomatic relations with Syria, stating that a quick normalization of mutual ties is in the interest of both neighboring countries.
On Saturday, Guler recalled Turkish President Recep Tayyip Erdogan's statement about his willingness to meet with his Syrian counterpart Bashar al-Assad, noting that Damascus has accepted Ankara's initiative positively.
He also described as "quite positive" the recent statements by the Syrian leader that rapprochement with Turkey requires mutual respect for sovereignty and a true commitment to addressing the root causes of tensions in bilateral relations between Damascus and Ankara.
"I don't think there is an insurmountable problem between us. Once we resolve our issues, we can continue our normal activities as neighboring countries. Resolution of the conflict will be in the interest of both sides," Guler stated.
Addressing the People's Assembly, Syria's legislative authority, on August 25, Assad said, "For any normalization of relations to occur, Turkey must reverse the policies that have led to the current situation, including the withdrawal of Turkish forces from Syrian territory and the cessation of support for terrorist groups."
Assad emphasized that such issues are not mere conditions but fundamental requirements for successful diplomacy.
The Syrian leader also called for a formal agreement between Damascus and Ankara, which would outline the principles for future negotiations and ensure that all steps are aligned with international law and the sovereignty of both countries.
The normalization of relations between Ankara and Damascus commenced on December 28, 2022, marked by a meeting in Moscow involving the defense ministers of Russia, Syria, and Turkey. The gathering represented the most significant dialogue between the two nations since the onset of the Syrian conflict.
Since 2016, Turkey has undertaken three significant ground operations targeting militants in northern Syria who are supported by the United States.
The Turkish government asserts that the US-backed Kurdish People's Protection Units (YPG) militants have connections to the Kurdistan Workers' Party (PKK) militant group.
Syria considers the Turkish presence on its soil to be illegal, saying it reserves the right to defend its sovereignty against the occupying forces.
Syrian President Bashar al-Assad has tied rapprochement with Turkey to Ankara's ending occupation of the northern parts of the Arab country and its support for militant groups wreaking havoc and fighting against the Damascus government.


