Supporting Ukrainian Energy System and Tightening Sanctions Against Russian Federation: Andriy Yermak Met with U.S. Assistant Secretary of State James O'Brien
President of Ukraine
_
20240901
https://www.globalsecurity.org/wmd/library/news/ukraine/2024/08/ukraine-240831-ukraine-president04.htm
President of Ukraine
31 August 2024 - 14:00
During a visit to the United States as part of a Ukrainian delegation headed by First Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of Economy of Ukraine Yuliia Svyrydenko, Head of the Presidential Office Andriy Yermak met with U.S. Assistant Secretary of State James O'Brien.
The Head of the Office of the President described the recent Russian shelling of Ukraine's energy facilities. Andriy Yermak noted the need to restore energy infrastructure following these attacks; he also emphasized the key role of American partners in enabling its rapid restoration.
The Head of the Presidential Office also informed the Assistant Secretary of State on the needs of the Ukrainian Defense Forces, particularly in strengthening air defense.
"Now it is especially important to maximize our efforts for the sake of Ukraine and the Ukrainian people. This is the key moment that we must seize together," Andriy Yermak said.
The Head of the Presidential Office paid special attention to the tightening of sanctions against the aggressor state.
"Sanctions are costing the Russian economy dearly, but it is still not enough. We must continue our work on tightening the sanctions restrictions. Each day of waging war should cost Russia more," Andriy Yermak said.
Among other things, the Head of the Office of the President stressed the need to strengthen the sanctions policy against Russia in the sphere of finance, oil and gas exports, as well as the measures aimed at stopping the supply of Western equipment to the military-industrial complex of the Russian Federation.
The Head of the Presidential Office described the development of the Peace Formula process and the preparations for thematic conferences to be held in the near future based on its points.


