UK suspends around 30 arms export licences to Israel for use in Gaza over International Humanitarian Law concerns
_
_
20240903
https://www.globalsecurity.org/wmd/library/news/israel/2024/09/israel-240902-ukfcdo01.htm
The government has taken the decision that the UK will suspend arms export licences to Israel for use in military operations in Gaza, following a review of Israel's compliance with international humanitarian law.
2 September 2024
The government has taken the decision that the UK will suspend arms   export licences to Israel for use in military operations in Gaza,   following a review of Israel's compliance with international   humanitarian law.
The UK's robust export licensing criteria states that the government   will not issue export licences if the items might be used to commit or   facilitate serious violations of International Humanitarian Law.
The suspension will not change the UK's steadfast support for Israel's security, and the decision will be kept under review.
On day one in office, the Foreign Secretary commissioned a thorough   review into Israel's compliance with International Humanitarian Law, and   has travelled to Israel twice since being appointed to the role to   understand the situation on the ground.
These assessments have led to serious concerns about aspects of   Israel's compliance, and the government has concluded there is a clear   risk that items exported to Israel under these 30 licences might be used   in serious violations of IHL and is therefore suspending certain   exports immediately from today.
It comes after repeated calls by UK ministers for Israel to do more   to ensure lifesaving food and medical supplies reach civilians in Gaza,   and for improved treatment and access to detainees.
Foreign Secretary David Lammy said:
Facing a conflict such as this, it is this government's legal duty to review export licences.
It is with regret that I inform the House today, the assessment I   have received finds that for certain UK arms exports to Israel there   exists a clear risk that they might be used to commit or facilitate a   serious violation of International Humanitarian Law.
Therefore today we are announcing the suspension of around 30   export licences to Israel as required under the Export Controls   frameworks.
The UK continues to support Israel's right to self-defence in accordance with international law.
Business and Trade Secretary Jonathan Reynolds said:
Our world renowned defence industry operates under one of the most   robust export licence regimes in the world, and we have a duty to uphold   both our domestic and international legal obligations.
That is why after assessing the latest available   advice, I have taken the difficult decision to suspend certain arms   licences for exports from the UK to Israel. By suspending these   licences, I am fulfilling our commitment to avoiding the risk that UK   exports could be used in IHL violations in the Gaza conflict. There will   remain however an important commitment to maintaining the F-35   programme which is integral to international security.
The suspension will apply to around 30 items used in the current   conflict in Gaza which go to the IDF, from a total of 350 licences to   Israel. The list of suspended items includes important components which   go into military aircraft, including fighter aircraft, helicopters and   drones as well as items which facilitate ground targeting, that would be   used in Gaza.
There are a number of export licences which we have assessed are not   for military use in the current conflict in Gaza and therefore do not   require suspension.
These include items that are not being used by the IDF in the current   conflict (such as trainer aircraft or other naval equipment), and   other, non-military items.  Export licences cover a range of products   including things such as food-testing chemicals, telecoms and data   equipment.
UK components for the multi-national F-35 joint strike fighter   programme will be excluded from this decision, except where going   directly to Israel.
Any suspension of those pooled parts is not possible without having a   significant effect on the global F35 fleet with serious implications   for international peace and security.
Today the Foreign Secretary has also announced sanctions against 3   individuals within the Islamic Revolutionary Guard Corps-Quds Force and   an IRGC unit for threatening the stability of the Middle East.
These targets seek to destabilise the region by sponsoring and   providing weapons to Iranian proxy groups and partners across the region   such as Lebanese-Hizbollah.



