Retaliatory operation near al-Khalil 'natural response' to Israeli crimes: Palestinian factions
Iran Press TV
_
20240902
https://www.globalsecurity.org/military/library/news/2024/09/mil-240901-presstv04.htm

Iran Press TV
Sunday, 01 September 2024 2:31 PM
Palestinian factions have praised the resistance fighters for their recent retaliatory shooting operation in the southern occupied West Bank city of al-Khalil, describing it as a "natural response" to the massacres and acts of genocide committed by the Israeli regime against Palestinians.
The factions made the remarks in separate statements released on Sunday after three Israeli police officers were killed in a drive-by shooting at the Tarqumiya checkpoint, west of al-Khalil, earlier in the day.
The Palestinian resistance movement Hamas asserted that Palestinians will continue "their path of jihad and resistance" against Israel until their complete liberation from the regime's occupation and aggression, stressing that Israel's crimes against Palestinians will only make the resistance grow stronger.
The Popular Resistance Committees (PRC) echoed Hamas's statement, saying that the latest operation at the Tarqumiya checkpoint affirms the resistance's "strength, significant effectiveness, innovative resilience, and legendary steadfastness."
The Popular Front for the Liberation of Palestine (PFLP) also noted that the operation "proves the enemy's helplessness in the face of the resistance and redefines equations of deterrence in the West Bank."
It added that this operation sends a strong message to Israel "that the train of resistance operations is moving relentlessly, and no one can stop it."
Fatah al-Intifada, another Palestinian resistance movement, said the operation demonstrates "the determination of our resistance and its ability to strike the enemy with full force and precision."
It also stressed that this operation "sends a message of defiance that there will be no security or stability" for the occupying regime as long as it continues its crimes against Palestinians.
On Sunday, Palestinian resistance fighters targeted a vehicle near the Tarqumiya checkpoint, leaving two Israeli police officers dead and another seriously injured who later succumbed to his wounds.
An Israeli security source said several gunmen opened fire toward a car on Route 35, and that the occupation forces are in pursuit of the shooters.
The Palestinians who carried out the operation managed to flee the scene despite significant Israeli security and military presence in the area.
The operation comes amid heightened tensions in the West Bank caused by an ongoing Israeli aggression in the occupied territory.
On Wednesday, the Israeli army launched its largest military offensive since 2002 in the cities of Tulkarm and Jenin, as well as in the al-Far'a refugee camp near Tubas, killing 22 Palestinians, according to Palestinian figures.
Since Israel unleashed a war on the besieged Gaza Strip in early October 2023, casualties have been rising in the West Bank as a result of intensified near-daily Israeli raids into villages and cities in the occupied territories.
According to Palestinian health officials, at least 675 Palestinians have been killed and nearly 5,400 others injured by Israeli forces in the West Bank since the outbreak of the war on Gaza.



