At least 11 killed in Israeli strike on Gaza City school sheltering displaced Palestinians
Iran Press TV
_
20240903
https://www.globalsecurity.org/military/library/news/2024/09/mil-240902-presstv09.htm

Iran Press TV
Monday, 02 September 2024 6:53 AM
The Israeli military has killed at least 11 Palestinians in an airstrike on a school sheltering displaced people in Gaza City as school carnage in the war-wracked territory continues apace.
The attack struck the Safad school in the Zeitoun neighborhood in Gaza City on Sunday, a medical source said.
The source added that the number of Gazans killed in the Israeli bombing of the school has increased from six to 11, noting that those who sustained injuries have been taken to the al-Ahli Arab Hospital in Gaza City.
The bodies of the killed people "were torn apart and scattered due to the intensity of the Israeli bombing," witnesses told Anadolu news agency.
They added that one of the school's buildings, where hundreds of displaced people have sheltered, was destroyed.
The Palestinian Civil Defense Agency said that the school has been evacuated after Israeli threats to attack its premises.
Since the beginning of Israel's genocidal war in Gaza on October 7, 2023, the regime has systematically attacked civic infrastructure, including schools housing displaced people, hospitals and places of worship, often claiming without evidence they are linked to Hamas, to evade international criticism.
More than 100 citizens were killed and dozens more injured on August 10 after the Israeli occupation forces bombed the al-Tabi'in school in the al-Daraj neighborhood in Gaza City, sheltering over 6,000 displaced people.
At least 40,738 Palestinians, mostly children and women, have been killed and 94,154 people wounded in the war that Israel began in early October last year following a retaliatory operation by the Palestinian territory's resistance movements.
Concomitantly with the war, the regime has been enforcing a near-total siege on the coastal territory, which has reduced the flow of foodstuffs, medicine, electricity, and water into the Palestinian territory into a trickle.


