Agreement on Support for Ukraine and Cooperation between Ukraine and Ireland
President of Ukraine
_
20240905
https://www.globalsecurity.org/wmd/library/news/ukraine/2024/09/ukraine-240904-ukraine-president06.htm
President of Ukraine
4 September 2024 - 13:25
I        Introduction
1. Ukraine and Ireland, hereinafter jointly referred to as "the   Participants", reiterate their unequivocal condemnation of Russia's   ongoing full-scale war of aggression against Ukraine and temporary   occupation of the territory of Ukraine. Europe's security is facing its   gravest threat in decades. Ireland remains unwavering in its commitment   to support Ukraine's independence, sovereignty and territorial integrity   within its internationally recognised borders as of 1991, including its   territorial sea.
2. Russia's brutal war is a blatant violation of international law   and the Charter of the United Nations (UN Charter), the Helsinki Final   Act and the Charter of Paris. Russia's aggression against Ukraine   weakens security and stability across Europe and undermines Russia's   credibility as a party to international agreements. The war continues to   aggravate a food and energy crisis that affects the poorest and most   vulnerable communities globally.
3. Further to the Joint Declaration of Support for Ukraine ("G7   Declaration"), adopted in Vilnius on 12 July 2023 by the Group of Seven   and the European Union (EU) and co-signed by Ireland, Ireland is   committed to maintaining support for Ukraine as it defends its   sovereignty and territorial integrity, rebuilds its economy, protects   its citizens, and advances its reform agenda, and as it pursues its   pathway towards EU integration and accession.
4. The Participants will deepen their cooperation and partnership by   pursuing the long-term bilateral security commitments set forth in this   Agreement. These commitments are based on the Participants' common   interest in defending the global multilateral system and international   law, based on the UN Charter, and protecting fundamental human rights   and freedoms.
II       Scope
5. The Participants will strengthen their cooperation by pursuing   bilateral and long-term commitments across a range of areas, including   political support, security assistance and cooperation, humanitarian   support, recovery and reconstruction, and ensuring accountability, by   pursuing the measures referred to in this Agreement.
6. Since February 2022, Ireland has committed approximately €380   million in humanitarian, stabilisation and non-lethal military   assistance to Ukraine. Ireland's commitments to Ukraine seek to   complement contributions by the other signatories of the G7 Declaration,   including the EU and its Member States. These commitments to Ukraine   are coordinated with partners and fully reflect the Joint Security   Commitments between the EU and Ukraine, signed on 27 June 2024.
7. In this context, Ireland will continue to provide long-term   political, security and financial support, as well as humanitarian   assistance to Ukraine, as it defends its sovereignty and territorial   integrity against Russia's invasion. Ukraine, for its part, is strongly   committed to the implementation of governance reforms, including   transparency, accountability and anti-corruption reforms.
III     Political support for Ukraine
8. The future of Ukraine and its people lies within the European   family, in the EU. Ukraine's security is an integral part of European   security and Ukraine has the right to choose its own foreign and   security policy path, and its own security arrangements.
9. The Participants reaffirm their commitment to Ukraine's European   aspirations, and in particular towards Ukraine's membership of the   European Union and other international organisations. The Participants   therefore warmly welcome the decision by the European Council in   December 2023 to open EU accession negotiations with Ukraine, and the   convening of the first Inter-governmental Conference on 25 June 2024.
10. The Participants reaffirm their commitment to work constructively   on Ukraine's progressive integration towards the EU, with a view to its   future EU membership. Ireland, in cooperation with the EU and its   Member States, will continue to support Ukraine in its reforms and   accession path.
11. Ireland remains committed to supporting Ukraine, bilaterally and   through the EU and its Ukraine Facility, to support Ukraine's recovery   and reconstruction, and modernisation reforms in line with its EU   accession path.
12. The Participants recall the merit-based nature of the EU   accession process. Ireland commends Ukraine for the successful reform   process so far and acknowledges Ukraine's efforts to strive for the   implementation of necessary reforms under extremely challenging   circumstances.
13. Ireland recalls its strong support for the EU's efforts to   support Ukraine's immediate and long-term security and resilience,   including through the contribution of non-lethal military and civilian   assistance, humanitarian, financial, trade and economic support, hosting   of displaced people, support to reforms, recovery and reconstruction,   as well as restrictive measures, support to accountability mechanisms,   diplomatic support and global outreach.
14. Ireland will continue its diplomatic efforts to promote the   implementation of Ukraine's Peace Formula. Ukraine deserves a just and   lasting peace based on international law and respecting Ukraine's   sovereignty, independence and territorial integrity. The Participants   will work together for a just and lasting peace in Ukraine that has   broad global support.
15. Ireland will remain engaged on specific elements of Ukraine's   Peace Formula, including the work of the International Coalition on the   Return of Ukrainian Children under point 4 of the Peace Formula, which   aims to secure the return of all prisoners of war and unlawfully   displaced Ukrainian children and other Ukrainian civilians.
16. The Participants reaffirm their strong commitment to the   Organisation for Security and Cooperation in Europe (OSCE) and call for   Russia's immediate return to respecting the OSCE's principles and   commitments. Ukraine and Ireland commend the important work of the   Support Programme for Ukraine and are willing to make full use of the   OSCE's tools in support of Ukraine's security, stability and   reconstruction. The Participants will work closely to this end.
IV     Security assistance and cooperation
17. The EU and Ireland, as an EU Member State, have strongly   condemned Russia's war of aggression. Ireland strongly supports the   joint position and action taken by the EU to support Ukraine in its   self-defence, including the joint security commitments agreed between   the European Union and Ukraine, signed on 27 June 2024 and unanimously   approved by the European Council.
18. In 2022 and 2023 Ireland committed €122 million in non-lethal   military support to Ukraine. In 2024 Ireland has committed a further   €128 million in non-lethal military support to Ukraine.
19. In this context, Ireland also fully supports the continued   mobilisation of predictable, sustainable and long-term support through   the European Peace Facility (EPF) and the dedicated Ukraine Assistance   Fund (UAF) under the Facility. Ireland's military support to Ukraine   through the European Peace Facility will continue to focus on non-lethal   equipment, as outlined in its Programme for Government commitments in   respect of the EPF.
20. Ireland will work on supporting efforts to improve capabilities   of the security and defence forces of Ukraine to defend itself against   Russian aggression now and deter possible further aggression in the   future, with particular focus on de-mining capabilities and training   supports through EUMAM as well as to contribute to Ukraine's Future   Force Design.
21. Ireland will continue its training support aimed at addressing   the needs expressed by Ukraine in the framework of the European Union   Military Assistance Mission in support of Ukraine (EUMAM). This   framework provides the principal mechanism for Ireland's continuing   non-lethal military support to Ukraine.
22. Recalling that Ireland has already provided various elements of   direct support, including the provision of equipment such as mine   clearance systems, transport vehicles, ambulances, body armour, and   other non-lethal equipment, as well as funding for cyber security   support, Ireland will continue to provide ongoing assistance to Ukraine,   as it defends its sovereignty and territorial integrity against the   ongoing aggression in line with Article 51 of the UN Charter.
23. Ireland will continue to support Ukraine for the ten-year duration of this Agreement.
24. Ireland's support will remain steadfast and will remain centred,   according to its own capabilities and policy approach, on non-lethal   military assistance based on Ukraine's needs. Such support in the field   of security and defence will include, but will not be limited to, the   following areas:
25. Recognising the scale of the contamination of Ukraine's territory   with mines and explosive remnants of war, mine action has been   identified as a key priority in the short to long-term. Ireland is   committed to supporting the mine clearance of the territory of Ukraine   and will continue to explore the provision of funding under the European   Peace Facility to support demining, as well as the provision of   training support under EUMAM-Ukraine in response to Ukrainian expressed   needs in this area, including in developing and sustaining international   demining standards.
26. Recalling Ireland's existing support in the area of cyber   security, participants will explore opportunities to deepen cooperation   in digital resilience and cyber security to assist Ukraine in detecting   and countering Russian and any other malicious cyber activity, in   accordance with international law. This will be achieved through   enhanced cyber resilience and critical infrastructure protection, cyber   threat intelligence sharing, and providing technical and/or financial   assistance to Ukraine.
27. The Participants will explore strengthening bilateral cooperation   and resilience in countering hybrid threats, as well as countering   foreign information manipulation and interference disinformation   campaigns and malign propaganda primarily by Russia and any other   hostile actors. The Participants will deepen their cooperation within   the European Centre of Excellence for Countering Hybrid Threats,   including through Ukraine's enhanced partnership with the Centre.
28. The Participants will explore mechanisms to share relevant   information and analysis on activities by hostile actors, which impact   on any aspect of national security and the functioning of democratic   institutions, in accordance with applicable legal frameworks.
29. Ireland will also continue to provide strong support for the EU   Advisory Mission in Ukraine (EUAM Ukraine). By sharing expertise through   the EUAM, Ireland will continue to support Ukraine in reforming the   civilian security sector, law enforcement, and the rule of law. Ireland   will continue to contribute to the work of EUAM Ukraine in the   investigation and prosecution of international crimes, and   re-establishing the rule of law in the de-occupied and adjacent   territories in Ukraine.
30. The Participants reaffirm their commitment to comply with their   obligations under international law, including the duty to respect and   ensure respect for international humanitarian law. Ukraine will ensure   that any military equipment provided by Ireland is used exclusively for   Ukraine's self-defence, and is used in accordance with international   law, including international humanitarian law.
31. The Participants recognise the importance of the maritime order   based on international law, in particular the United Nations Convention   on the Law of the Sea (UNCLOS). In this regard, Ukraine and Ireland will   promote freedom of navigation and safety at sea. The Participants will   coordinate their efforts on strengthening international cooperation and   collaboration in this domain.
V       Humanitarian, reconstruction and reform support
32. Ireland continues to provide temporary protection for people   fleeing from Ukraine due to Russian aggression, under the EU Temporary   Protection Directive. To date, over 109,000 people from Ukraine have   applied for temporary protection and have been welcomed in Ireland since   February 2022.
33. Ireland is committed to providing humanitarian aid to Ukraine, to   assist Ukraine in reconstruction, and to support its programme of   reform and pathway to membership of the European Union. Ireland's   support will remain steadfast, durable and long-term in nature.
34. In 2022 and 2023, Ireland committed €90 million in humanitarian   and stabilisation support to Ukraine. In 2024, Ireland has committed at   least €40 million in humanitarian and stabilisation support to Ukraine,   including for humanitarian, reconstruction, macro-economic and reform   programmes in Ukraine, and will work closely with the Ukrainian   government and international development partners, including the UN, in   disbursing this funding.
35. Irish assistance will also be channelled through relevant trusted   civil society organisations operating in Ukraine. Ireland commits to   remaining a firm champion of civil society and will in particular seek   to pursue appropriate opportunities to support this sector.
36. The Participants recognise the importance of supporting private   businesses in Ukraine, as their input plays a vital role in supporting   the local economy and enhancing the resilience of affected communities.   Therefore, the Participants are willing, in accordance with their   national laws and applicable international law and obligations arising   from the international agreements to which they are party, to work   together to identify opportunities for private sector investment and   cooperation in Ukraine.
VI     Commitment to reform in Ukraine
37. Inclusive reform is indispensable for Ukraine's current and   future security and prosperity, for its democracy, the resilience of its   institutions and for Ukraine's aspirations for EU membership. Ukraine   commits to implement reforms as defined by the EU and the International   Monetary Fund, notably in the areas of governance, transparency,   anti-corruption and democratic control over its security and defence   forces.
38. Ireland will continue to provide strong support for the   strengthening of the rule of law in Ukraine, with a view to ensuring   that Ukraine's recovery, reconstruction and implementation of key   reforms is fully aligned with EU rules and standards.
39. Ireland stands ready to provide further advice and assistance to   Ukraine, drawing on the experience of its own accession process and   membership of the European Union, as Ukraine progresses along its EU   path.
VII    Promoting Accountability
40. The Participants acknowledge the importance of justice for a   lasting and sustainable peace in Ukraine and beyond, and the imperative   of ensuring that there is no impunity for international crimes committed   in and against Ukraine.
41. The Participants reaffirm their commitment to ensuring the   accountability of the Russian Federation for all damage, loss or injury   to individuals and entities in Ukraine, as well as to the state of   Ukraine, as a result of the internationally wrongful acts of the Russian   Federation in or against Ukraine, including waging a war of aggression   in violation of the UN Charter. The Participants are committed to   ensuring accountability for the crime of aggression against Ukraine and   are convinced of the need to establish a tribunal for that purpose. The   Participants will continue their engagement in the "Core Group on   options for the establishment of a tribunal on the crime of aggression   against Ukraine".
42. The Participants will continue to support the investigation and   prosecution of alleged international crimes committed in and against   Ukraine and will continue to support the work of the International   Criminal Court (ICC). Furthermore, Ireland will continue to deploy   experts through the EUAM to support the work of the Office of the   Prosecutor General of Ukraine and to build Ukraine's capacity to   investigate and prosecute war crimes in the context of Russia's war of   aggression.
VIII Compensation for damage, loss and injury caused by Russian aggression
43. The Participants reaffirm that the Russian Federation must be   held accountable for the damage caused by its internationally wrongful   acts in and against Ukraine. Ireland will continue to support the   immobilisation of Russian sovereign assets within the EU until Russia   ceases its war of aggression against Ukraine and compensates Ukraine for   the damage caused by this war.
44. Ireland supports the work ongoing to find ways to utilise frozen   and immobilised Russian assets to support Ukraine and its recovery and   reconstruction, in accordance with EU and international law and in   coordination with partner countries.
45. The Participants welcome the agreement reached at EU-level to   ensure the extraordinary revenue generated from immobilised Russian   sovereign assets will be used to support Ukraine. Ireland will continue   to support efforts within the EU to examine further possibilities for   use of extraordinary revenue generated from Russian sovereign assets, in   coordination with international partners, including the G7.
46. As a priority, the Participants will continue to work together,   along with G7 states and others, towards the establishment of an   international compensation mechanism to provide compensation for damage,   loss or injury caused by Russia's aggression, as envisaged by the   Statute of the Register of Damage Caused by the Aggression of the   Russian Federation against Ukraine adopted by the Resolution of the   Committee of Ministers of the Council of Europe CM/Res(2023)3. This may   include the exploration of appropriate options for the financing of an   international compensation mechanism to provide prompt and adequate   compensation to victims of aggression.
IX Sanctions
47. The Participants recognise the value of sanctions in restricting   the Russian Federation's access to the finance, goods, technology and   services it is utilising in its aggression. Ireland will remain   committed to pursuing robust restrictive measures and export controls   against those sectors of the Russian economy and outside that are   supporting or profiting from the war, or assisting in sanctions   circumvention in third countries.
48. Ireland will continue to take determined action through the EU to   uphold sanctions against the Russian Federation and to tackle all forms   of circumvention of restrictive measures. Ireland will also cooperate   and share expertise with Ukraine on EU restrictive measures, their   implementation and efforts to combat sanctions evasion.
49. The Participants will provide each other with up-to-date   appropriate information on the grounds for sanctions listings and   related relevant information, in compliance with relevant obligations   and national laws.
X       Consultation mechanisms
50. In order to facilitate the implementation of this Agreement and   to ensure an ongoing strategic dialogue, appropriate consultation   structures between the Participants will be arranged.
51. In particular, the Participants will develop senior-level   consultations on political and strategic matters, including regular   strategic dialogues on the strengthening of Ukraine's security, defence,   resilience, and reform path.
52. In the event of future Russian armed attacks against Ukraine or   the significant escalation of the ongoing aggression, the Participants,   at the request of either of the Participants, will consult within 24   hours, bilaterally or via other channels they both deem appropriate, in   order to determine appropriate next steps.
XI     Final Provisions
53. The Participants will implement this Agreement in accordance with   their international and national legal obligations, including Ireland's   obligations as a member of the EU, budgetary appropriations, and in   full respect for Ireland's longstanding policy of military neutrality.
54. This Agreement will remain in effect for 10 years from the date of its signature.
55. In accordance with the G7 Joint Declaration of 12 July 2023, the   Participants share the opinion that this Agreement is without prejudice   to Ukraine pursuing a pathway toward future membership in NATO.
56. The Participants will, if necessary, designate authorised bodies   for the development and implementation of bilateral arrangements in   accordance with the areas of cooperation specified in this Agreement.
57. The authorised bodies of the Participants may conclude executive   and technical arrangements on specific areas of cooperation within the   framework of the implementation of this Agreement or supplementary to   this Agreement.
58. This Agreement may be brought to an end by either Participant at   any time by written notice to the other Participant. The Agreement will   be discontinued six months from the date of receipt of such notice.
59. This Agreement may be amended and supplemented, including by   adding annexes thereto, by mutual consent of the Participants, which   will be made in writing.
60. Any difference in the interpretation and implementation of this   Agreement will be settled amicably through direct consultations between   the Participants.
61. This Agreement will come into effect on the date of signature.
Signed in Kyiv on 4 September 2024, in duplicate, in the English and   Ukrainian languages, the English version of which will prevail in the   event of any discrepancy.
For Ukraine: President Volodymyr Zelenskyy
For Ireland: Simon Harris, TDTaoiseach


