IDF arrests man who illegally crossed into Israel from Syria
YONAH JEREMY BOB
SEPTEMBER 4, 2024 15:24
20240904
https://www.jpost.com/breaking-news/article-818709
The IDF arrested a suspect near the Syrian-Israeli border on Wednesday.The suspect approached a security zone area, leading the IDF to fire off some shots to try to distance him from the border.Although maybe the IDF would have wanted its forces to fire in the air, the suspect was wounded by the IDF warning fire.  In response, the IDF came to the suspect and then evacuated him to an Israeli hospital.Further, the IDF is probing the incident, possibly because it did not wish the suspect to be shot if he presented a nuisance and did not present an immediate danger.   Amidst tension with Syria, IDF Reserve infantrymen take part in a military maneuver of their battalion in Golan Heights, on April 1, 2024.  (credit: MICHAEL GILADI/FLASH90)Previous incidentsPrior to the current war, such events, often involving poor shepherds or persons with mental issues, were not that uncommon.Often, such persons were questioned and then returned to Syria.
The suspect approached a security zone area, leading the IDF to fire off some shots to try to distance him from the border.Although maybe the IDF would have wanted its forces to fire in the air, the suspect was wounded by the IDF warning fire.  In response, the IDF came to the suspect and then evacuated him to an Israeli hospital.Further, the IDF is probing the incident, possibly because it did not wish the suspect to be shot if he presented a nuisance and did not present an immediate danger.   Amidst tension with Syria, IDF Reserve infantrymen take part in a military maneuver of their battalion in Golan Heights, on April 1, 2024.  (credit: MICHAEL GILADI/FLASH90)Previous incidentsPrior to the current war, such events, often involving poor shepherds or persons with mental issues, were not that uncommon.Often, such persons were questioned and then returned to Syria.
Although maybe the IDF would have wanted its forces to fire in the air, the suspect was wounded by the IDF warning fire.  In response, the IDF came to the suspect and then evacuated him to an Israeli hospital.Further, the IDF is probing the incident, possibly because it did not wish the suspect to be shot if he presented a nuisance and did not present an immediate danger.   Amidst tension with Syria, IDF Reserve infantrymen take part in a military maneuver of their battalion in Golan Heights, on April 1, 2024.  (credit: MICHAEL GILADI/FLASH90)Previous incidentsPrior to the current war, such events, often involving poor shepherds or persons with mental issues, were not that uncommon.Often, such persons were questioned and then returned to Syria.
In response, the IDF came to the suspect and then evacuated him to an Israeli hospital.Further, the IDF is probing the incident, possibly because it did not wish the suspect to be shot if he presented a nuisance and did not present an immediate danger.   Amidst tension with Syria, IDF Reserve infantrymen take part in a military maneuver of their battalion in Golan Heights, on April 1, 2024.  (credit: MICHAEL GILADI/FLASH90)Previous incidentsPrior to the current war, such events, often involving poor shepherds or persons with mental issues, were not that uncommon.Often, such persons were questioned and then returned to Syria.
Further, the IDF is probing the incident, possibly because it did not wish the suspect to be shot if he presented a nuisance and did not present an immediate danger.   Amidst tension with Syria, IDF Reserve infantrymen take part in a military maneuver of their battalion in Golan Heights, on April 1, 2024.  (credit: MICHAEL GILADI/FLASH90)Previous incidentsPrior to the current war, such events, often involving poor shepherds or persons with mental issues, were not that uncommon.Often, such persons were questioned and then returned to Syria.
Prior to the current war, such events, often involving poor shepherds or persons with mental issues, were not that uncommon.Often, such persons were questioned and then returned to Syria.
Often, such persons were questioned and then returned to Syria.
