Israel Police criticizes State Attorney after US files charges against Hamas leadership - KAN
JERUSALEM POST STAFF
SEPTEMBER 4, 2024 10:04
20240904
https://www.jpost.com/breaking-news/article-818667
Israel Police criticized the State Attorney on Wednesday after the US filed charges against the Hamas leadership, KAN reported on Wednesday. According to the report, the criticism centered around the fact that in Israel, nothing was achieved on the subject, while the US had filed charges based on evidence gathered in Israel. According to a source at Lahav 433 cited in the report, such an indictment filed on Israel's part may cause damage to the evidence and a delay in presenting the results to the families of the victims.   Filing an indictment in IsraelIn addition, there are concerns that filing such indictments may endanger the hostages and the possibility of a deal.In April, Menachem Finklestein, former district judge, and IDF chief lawyer Maj. Gen. (res.) noted at the College of Management Academic Studies conference that one of the reasons may be that some or many of the suspects detained in Israel for having participated in the October 7 massacre may be exchanged in a hostage deal with Hamas.  Kibbutz Nir Oz after the massacre (credit: Chaim Goldberg/Flash90)In addition, Finkelstein pointed out the legal problems that would ensue if the Knesset were to pass a war crimes statute to form an ad hoc court that would deal with the detainees. He added that such a move could also harm Israel's legitimacy internationally. Furthermore, with regard to evidence, it was stated in the April conference that the extent of the killing on October 7 was so vast that few witnesses were able to identify the perpetrators of the crimes.  On Tuesday, the US filed criminal charges against Hamas's leadership, including  Yahya Sinwar, charging them of leading Hamas's efforts to murder civilians and destroy the State of Israel. Yonah Jeremy Bob and Reuters contributed to this article.
According to the report, the criticism centered around the fact that in Israel, nothing was achieved on the subject, while the US had filed charges based on evidence gathered in Israel. According to a source at Lahav 433 cited in the report, such an indictment filed on Israel's part may cause damage to the evidence and a delay in presenting the results to the families of the victims.   Filing an indictment in IsraelIn addition, there are concerns that filing such indictments may endanger the hostages and the possibility of a deal.In April, Menachem Finklestein, former district judge, and IDF chief lawyer Maj. Gen. (res.) noted at the College of Management Academic Studies conference that one of the reasons may be that some or many of the suspects detained in Israel for having participated in the October 7 massacre may be exchanged in a hostage deal with Hamas.  Kibbutz Nir Oz after the massacre (credit: Chaim Goldberg/Flash90)In addition, Finkelstein pointed out the legal problems that would ensue if the Knesset were to pass a war crimes statute to form an ad hoc court that would deal with the detainees. He added that such a move could also harm Israel's legitimacy internationally. Furthermore, with regard to evidence, it was stated in the April conference that the extent of the killing on October 7 was so vast that few witnesses were able to identify the perpetrators of the crimes.  On Tuesday, the US filed criminal charges against Hamas's leadership, including  Yahya Sinwar, charging them of leading Hamas's efforts to murder civilians and destroy the State of Israel. Yonah Jeremy Bob and Reuters contributed to this article.
According to a source at Lahav 433 cited in the report, such an indictment filed on Israel's part may cause damage to the evidence and a delay in presenting the results to the families of the victims.   Filing an indictment in IsraelIn addition, there are concerns that filing such indictments may endanger the hostages and the possibility of a deal.In April, Menachem Finklestein, former district judge, and IDF chief lawyer Maj. Gen. (res.) noted at the College of Management Academic Studies conference that one of the reasons may be that some or many of the suspects detained in Israel for having participated in the October 7 massacre may be exchanged in a hostage deal with Hamas.  Kibbutz Nir Oz after the massacre (credit: Chaim Goldberg/Flash90)In addition, Finkelstein pointed out the legal problems that would ensue if the Knesset were to pass a war crimes statute to form an ad hoc court that would deal with the detainees. He added that such a move could also harm Israel's legitimacy internationally. Furthermore, with regard to evidence, it was stated in the April conference that the extent of the killing on October 7 was so vast that few witnesses were able to identify the perpetrators of the crimes.  On Tuesday, the US filed criminal charges against Hamas's leadership, including  Yahya Sinwar, charging them of leading Hamas's efforts to murder civilians and destroy the State of Israel. Yonah Jeremy Bob and Reuters contributed to this article.
In addition, there are concerns that filing such indictments may endanger the hostages and the possibility of a deal.In April, Menachem Finklestein, former district judge, and IDF chief lawyer Maj. Gen. (res.) noted at the College of Management Academic Studies conference that one of the reasons may be that some or many of the suspects detained in Israel for having participated in the October 7 massacre may be exchanged in a hostage deal with Hamas.  Kibbutz Nir Oz after the massacre (credit: Chaim Goldberg/Flash90)In addition, Finkelstein pointed out the legal problems that would ensue if the Knesset were to pass a war crimes statute to form an ad hoc court that would deal with the detainees. He added that such a move could also harm Israel's legitimacy internationally. Furthermore, with regard to evidence, it was stated in the April conference that the extent of the killing on October 7 was so vast that few witnesses were able to identify the perpetrators of the crimes.  On Tuesday, the US filed criminal charges against Hamas's leadership, including  Yahya Sinwar, charging them of leading Hamas's efforts to murder civilians and destroy the State of Israel. Yonah Jeremy Bob and Reuters contributed to this article.
In April, Menachem Finklestein, former district judge, and IDF chief lawyer Maj. Gen. (res.) noted at the College of Management Academic Studies conference that one of the reasons may be that some or many of the suspects detained in Israel for having participated in the October 7 massacre may be exchanged in a hostage deal with Hamas.  Kibbutz Nir Oz after the massacre (credit: Chaim Goldberg/Flash90)In addition, Finkelstein pointed out the legal problems that would ensue if the Knesset were to pass a war crimes statute to form an ad hoc court that would deal with the detainees. He added that such a move could also harm Israel's legitimacy internationally. Furthermore, with regard to evidence, it was stated in the April conference that the extent of the killing on October 7 was so vast that few witnesses were able to identify the perpetrators of the crimes.  On Tuesday, the US filed criminal charges against Hamas's leadership, including  Yahya Sinwar, charging them of leading Hamas's efforts to murder civilians and destroy the State of Israel. Yonah Jeremy Bob and Reuters contributed to this article.
In addition, Finkelstein pointed out the legal problems that would ensue if the Knesset were to pass a war crimes statute to form an ad hoc court that would deal with the detainees. He added that such a move could also harm Israel's legitimacy internationally. Furthermore, with regard to evidence, it was stated in the April conference that the extent of the killing on October 7 was so vast that few witnesses were able to identify the perpetrators of the crimes.  On Tuesday, the US filed criminal charges against Hamas's leadership, including  Yahya Sinwar, charging them of leading Hamas's efforts to murder civilians and destroy the State of Israel. Yonah Jeremy Bob and Reuters contributed to this article.
Furthermore, with regard to evidence, it was stated in the April conference that the extent of the killing on October 7 was so vast that few witnesses were able to identify the perpetrators of the crimes.  On Tuesday, the US filed criminal charges against Hamas's leadership, including  Yahya Sinwar, charging them of leading Hamas's efforts to murder civilians and destroy the State of Israel. Yonah Jeremy Bob and Reuters contributed to this article.
On Tuesday, the US filed criminal charges against Hamas's leadership, including  Yahya Sinwar, charging them of leading Hamas's efforts to murder civilians and destroy the State of Israel. Yonah Jeremy Bob and Reuters contributed to this article.
Yonah Jeremy Bob and Reuters contributed to this article.
