West Bank op. continues: IAF strikes Tulkarm cell, IDF engages terrorists - report
SAM HALPERN
SEPTEMBER 3, 2024 00:05
20240902
https://www.jpost.com/breaking-news/article-817480
An IAF aircraft struck an armed terror cell that fired at IDF troops during a counterterrorism operation in Tulkarm, the military reported on Monday.Later, the Hamas-affiliated Safa News Agency reported that one Palestinian had been killed and another had been wounded by Israeli small arms fire in Tulkarm.The Hamas-affiliated outlet did not provide specifics on the incident or note if those reportedly killed and wounded were armed combatants.  Al-Aqsa Martyrs' Brigades attacks troopsThe Hezbollah-owned Al Manar and the Hezbollah-affiliated Al Mayadeen, after citing a statement from the Al-Aqsa Martyrs' Brigades claiming that it had coordinated with local terrorists to attack Israeli troops in the area, also reported that one Palestinian individual had been killed in Tulkarm.The Al-Aqsa Martyrs' Brigades is a Fatah-affiliated terror group based in the West Bank. Israeli forces operating in Jenin August 31, 2024. (credit: IDF SPOKESPERSON'S UNIT)In March, Israeli state broadcaster KAN reported that members of the Martyr's Brigades took part in the October 7 attacks.Later, Safa, citing the Palestinian Red Crescent, reported that the two casualties had been conveyed to a local hospital. Palestinian Authority-run media outlet Wafa subsequently reported that large numbers of Israeli forces, along with bulldozers, had entered Tulkarm.This is a developing story.
Later, the Hamas-affiliated Safa News Agency reported that one Palestinian had been killed and another had been wounded by Israeli small arms fire in Tulkarm.The Hamas-affiliated outlet did not provide specifics on the incident or note if those reportedly killed and wounded were armed combatants.  Al-Aqsa Martyrs' Brigades attacks troopsThe Hezbollah-owned Al Manar and the Hezbollah-affiliated Al Mayadeen, after citing a statement from the Al-Aqsa Martyrs' Brigades claiming that it had coordinated with local terrorists to attack Israeli troops in the area, also reported that one Palestinian individual had been killed in Tulkarm.The Al-Aqsa Martyrs' Brigades is a Fatah-affiliated terror group based in the West Bank. Israeli forces operating in Jenin August 31, 2024. (credit: IDF SPOKESPERSON'S UNIT)In March, Israeli state broadcaster KAN reported that members of the Martyr's Brigades took part in the October 7 attacks.Later, Safa, citing the Palestinian Red Crescent, reported that the two casualties had been conveyed to a local hospital. Palestinian Authority-run media outlet Wafa subsequently reported that large numbers of Israeli forces, along with bulldozers, had entered Tulkarm.This is a developing story.
The Hamas-affiliated outlet did not provide specifics on the incident or note if those reportedly killed and wounded were armed combatants.  Al-Aqsa Martyrs' Brigades attacks troopsThe Hezbollah-owned Al Manar and the Hezbollah-affiliated Al Mayadeen, after citing a statement from the Al-Aqsa Martyrs' Brigades claiming that it had coordinated with local terrorists to attack Israeli troops in the area, also reported that one Palestinian individual had been killed in Tulkarm.The Al-Aqsa Martyrs' Brigades is a Fatah-affiliated terror group based in the West Bank. Israeli forces operating in Jenin August 31, 2024. (credit: IDF SPOKESPERSON'S UNIT)In March, Israeli state broadcaster KAN reported that members of the Martyr's Brigades took part in the October 7 attacks.Later, Safa, citing the Palestinian Red Crescent, reported that the two casualties had been conveyed to a local hospital. Palestinian Authority-run media outlet Wafa subsequently reported that large numbers of Israeli forces, along with bulldozers, had entered Tulkarm.This is a developing story.
The Hezbollah-owned Al Manar and the Hezbollah-affiliated Al Mayadeen, after citing a statement from the Al-Aqsa Martyrs' Brigades claiming that it had coordinated with local terrorists to attack Israeli troops in the area, also reported that one Palestinian individual had been killed in Tulkarm.The Al-Aqsa Martyrs' Brigades is a Fatah-affiliated terror group based in the West Bank. Israeli forces operating in Jenin August 31, 2024. (credit: IDF SPOKESPERSON'S UNIT)In March, Israeli state broadcaster KAN reported that members of the Martyr's Brigades took part in the October 7 attacks.Later, Safa, citing the Palestinian Red Crescent, reported that the two casualties had been conveyed to a local hospital. Palestinian Authority-run media outlet Wafa subsequently reported that large numbers of Israeli forces, along with bulldozers, had entered Tulkarm.This is a developing story.
The Al-Aqsa Martyrs' Brigades is a Fatah-affiliated terror group based in the West Bank. Israeli forces operating in Jenin August 31, 2024. (credit: IDF SPOKESPERSON'S UNIT)In March, Israeli state broadcaster KAN reported that members of the Martyr's Brigades took part in the October 7 attacks.Later, Safa, citing the Palestinian Red Crescent, reported that the two casualties had been conveyed to a local hospital. Palestinian Authority-run media outlet Wafa subsequently reported that large numbers of Israeli forces, along with bulldozers, had entered Tulkarm.This is a developing story.
In March, Israeli state broadcaster KAN reported that members of the Martyr's Brigades took part in the October 7 attacks.Later, Safa, citing the Palestinian Red Crescent, reported that the two casualties had been conveyed to a local hospital. Palestinian Authority-run media outlet Wafa subsequently reported that large numbers of Israeli forces, along with bulldozers, had entered Tulkarm.This is a developing story.
Later, Safa, citing the Palestinian Red Crescent, reported that the two casualties had been conveyed to a local hospital. Palestinian Authority-run media outlet Wafa subsequently reported that large numbers of Israeli forces, along with bulldozers, had entered Tulkarm.This is a developing story.
Palestinian Authority-run media outlet Wafa subsequently reported that large numbers of Israeli forces, along with bulldozers, had entered Tulkarm.This is a developing story.
This is a developing story.
