IDF kills Nukhba commander who oversaw Oct. 7 massacre in Netiv Ha'asara
JERUSALEM POST STAFF
SEPTEMBER 3, 2024 09:10
20240903
https://www.jpost.com/breaking-news/article-817496
The IDF and Shin Bet (Israel Security Agency) eliminated on Tuesday Ahmed Fozi Nazer Muhammad Wadia, the commander of the Nukhba company who oversaw the massacre in Netiv Ha'asara on October 7, the military said.Wadia was eliminated along with eight Hamas terrorists of the Daraj Tuffah Battalion in an Israel Air Force strike on a compound in Gaza City, which was located in the vicinity of the Al-Ahli Hospital compound, the IDF added. On October 7, Wadia, an operative in Hamas's Paraglider Array, reportedly raided Netiv Ha'asra, an Israeli community on the Gaza border, using a paraglider and oversaw the killing on site.  The military further stated that Wadia sat in the home of Gil Taasa, who was murdered during the massacre, and drank a beverage in front of Taasa's children. Footage from Netiv Ha'asara in the aftermath of the October 7 massacre. (credit: Alexi J. Rosenfeld/Getty Images)Additional terrorist killedAn additional terrorist who was eliminated in the strike was responsible for the Daraj Tuffah Battalion's engineering, sniping, and anti-tank operations, the IDF noted. He was reportedly in charge of supplying the explosives with which the security fence at the Gaza border was detonated on October 7. The IDF said that the attack was carried out in a precise strike outside of the hospital precincts.The military added that, before the strike,  it took measures to prevent civilian harm.  “My sons are happy, and that's the most important thing," Taasa's wife, Sabin, told Channel 12 on Tuesday following the announcement of Wadia's elimination.Sabin added that one of her sons said, "I personally would come full circle only when knowing that all Hamas terrorists had been eliminated," including the terror group's chief, Yahya Sinwar.
Wadia was eliminated along with eight Hamas terrorists of the Daraj Tuffah Battalion in an Israel Air Force strike on a compound in Gaza City, which was located in the vicinity of the Al-Ahli Hospital compound, the IDF added. On October 7, Wadia, an operative in Hamas's Paraglider Array, reportedly raided Netiv Ha'asra, an Israeli community on the Gaza border, using a paraglider and oversaw the killing on site.  The military further stated that Wadia sat in the home of Gil Taasa, who was murdered during the massacre, and drank a beverage in front of Taasa's children. Footage from Netiv Ha'asara in the aftermath of the October 7 massacre. (credit: Alexi J. Rosenfeld/Getty Images)Additional terrorist killedAn additional terrorist who was eliminated in the strike was responsible for the Daraj Tuffah Battalion's engineering, sniping, and anti-tank operations, the IDF noted. He was reportedly in charge of supplying the explosives with which the security fence at the Gaza border was detonated on October 7. The IDF said that the attack was carried out in a precise strike outside of the hospital precincts.The military added that, before the strike,  it took measures to prevent civilian harm.  “My sons are happy, and that's the most important thing," Taasa's wife, Sabin, told Channel 12 on Tuesday following the announcement of Wadia's elimination.Sabin added that one of her sons said, "I personally would come full circle only when knowing that all Hamas terrorists had been eliminated," including the terror group's chief, Yahya Sinwar.
On October 7, Wadia, an operative in Hamas's Paraglider Array, reportedly raided Netiv Ha'asra, an Israeli community on the Gaza border, using a paraglider and oversaw the killing on site.  The military further stated that Wadia sat in the home of Gil Taasa, who was murdered during the massacre, and drank a beverage in front of Taasa's children. Footage from Netiv Ha'asara in the aftermath of the October 7 massacre. (credit: Alexi J. Rosenfeld/Getty Images)Additional terrorist killedAn additional terrorist who was eliminated in the strike was responsible for the Daraj Tuffah Battalion's engineering, sniping, and anti-tank operations, the IDF noted. He was reportedly in charge of supplying the explosives with which the security fence at the Gaza border was detonated on October 7. The IDF said that the attack was carried out in a precise strike outside of the hospital precincts.The military added that, before the strike,  it took measures to prevent civilian harm.  “My sons are happy, and that's the most important thing," Taasa's wife, Sabin, told Channel 12 on Tuesday following the announcement of Wadia's elimination.Sabin added that one of her sons said, "I personally would come full circle only when knowing that all Hamas terrorists had been eliminated," including the terror group's chief, Yahya Sinwar.
The military further stated that Wadia sat in the home of Gil Taasa, who was murdered during the massacre, and drank a beverage in front of Taasa's children. Footage from Netiv Ha'asara in the aftermath of the October 7 massacre. (credit: Alexi J. Rosenfeld/Getty Images)Additional terrorist killedAn additional terrorist who was eliminated in the strike was responsible for the Daraj Tuffah Battalion's engineering, sniping, and anti-tank operations, the IDF noted. He was reportedly in charge of supplying the explosives with which the security fence at the Gaza border was detonated on October 7. The IDF said that the attack was carried out in a precise strike outside of the hospital precincts.The military added that, before the strike,  it took measures to prevent civilian harm.  “My sons are happy, and that's the most important thing," Taasa's wife, Sabin, told Channel 12 on Tuesday following the announcement of Wadia's elimination.Sabin added that one of her sons said, "I personally would come full circle only when knowing that all Hamas terrorists had been eliminated," including the terror group's chief, Yahya Sinwar.
An additional terrorist who was eliminated in the strike was responsible for the Daraj Tuffah Battalion's engineering, sniping, and anti-tank operations, the IDF noted. He was reportedly in charge of supplying the explosives with which the security fence at the Gaza border was detonated on October 7. The IDF said that the attack was carried out in a precise strike outside of the hospital precincts.The military added that, before the strike,  it took measures to prevent civilian harm.  “My sons are happy, and that's the most important thing," Taasa's wife, Sabin, told Channel 12 on Tuesday following the announcement of Wadia's elimination.Sabin added that one of her sons said, "I personally would come full circle only when knowing that all Hamas terrorists had been eliminated," including the terror group's chief, Yahya Sinwar.
The IDF said that the attack was carried out in a precise strike outside of the hospital precincts.The military added that, before the strike,  it took measures to prevent civilian harm.  “My sons are happy, and that's the most important thing," Taasa's wife, Sabin, told Channel 12 on Tuesday following the announcement of Wadia's elimination.Sabin added that one of her sons said, "I personally would come full circle only when knowing that all Hamas terrorists had been eliminated," including the terror group's chief, Yahya Sinwar.
The military added that, before the strike,  it took measures to prevent civilian harm.  “My sons are happy, and that's the most important thing," Taasa's wife, Sabin, told Channel 12 on Tuesday following the announcement of Wadia's elimination.Sabin added that one of her sons said, "I personally would come full circle only when knowing that all Hamas terrorists had been eliminated," including the terror group's chief, Yahya Sinwar.
“My sons are happy, and that's the most important thing," Taasa's wife, Sabin, told Channel 12 on Tuesday following the announcement of Wadia's elimination.Sabin added that one of her sons said, "I personally would come full circle only when knowing that all Hamas terrorists had been eliminated," including the terror group's chief, Yahya Sinwar.
Sabin added that one of her sons said, "I personally would come full circle only when knowing that all Hamas terrorists had been eliminated," including the terror group's chief, Yahya Sinwar.
