Hamas publishes video of Hersh Goldberg-Polin
JERUSALEM POST STAFF
SEPTEMBER 5, 2024 21:23
20240905
https://www.jpost.com/israel-hamas-war/article-818913
Hamas published a video of Hersh Goldberg-Polin on their official Telegram Thursday evening, as the terrorist organization continues to engage in psychological warfare.In the video, Hersh called on President Biden's administration to do all possible to bring an end to the war.The Hamas announcement read, "Al-Qassam Brigades announcement: Tonight at 11 p.m., the murdered Hersh Goldberg-Polin will speak. #Time_Is_Running_Out #Government_Of_Lies," the terror organization said in an earlier announcement.  This message follows the recent videos published by Hamas on Telegram of Eden Yerushalmi, Alex Lobanov, and Carmel Gat, three of the six hostages murdered in a Hamas tunnel by the terrorist group. Hersh is the fourth hostage video released of the six. Screenshot of Hamas's threat to release the last messages of the hostages, September 2, 2024. (credit: screenshot)The videos of Ori Danino and Almog Sarusi are expected to be released in the upcoming days, according to Hamas.Videos blame PM NetanyahuThe videos have depicted the hostages blaming Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu and his government for purposefully stalling a hostage deal, accusing him of letting them die at the hands of Hamas.Goldberg-Polin's parents, Rachel and Jon said, "We are in the midst of the seven-day Jewish mourning period after burying our son Hersh (of blessed memory) on Monday. Earlier tonight, Hamas released a new video of him, taken while he was being held hostage in the tunnels underneath Gaza. This must serve as an immediate wake-up call to the world to take action today to secure the release of the remaining 101 hostages before it is too late. No other family should go through what our family (and the families of the other recently executed hostages) have endured."
In the video, Hersh called on President Biden's administration to do all possible to bring an end to the war.The Hamas announcement read, "Al-Qassam Brigades announcement: Tonight at 11 p.m., the murdered Hersh Goldberg-Polin will speak. #Time_Is_Running_Out #Government_Of_Lies," the terror organization said in an earlier announcement.  This message follows the recent videos published by Hamas on Telegram of Eden Yerushalmi, Alex Lobanov, and Carmel Gat, three of the six hostages murdered in a Hamas tunnel by the terrorist group. Hersh is the fourth hostage video released of the six. Screenshot of Hamas's threat to release the last messages of the hostages, September 2, 2024. (credit: screenshot)The videos of Ori Danino and Almog Sarusi are expected to be released in the upcoming days, according to Hamas.Videos blame PM NetanyahuThe videos have depicted the hostages blaming Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu and his government for purposefully stalling a hostage deal, accusing him of letting them die at the hands of Hamas.Goldberg-Polin's parents, Rachel and Jon said, "We are in the midst of the seven-day Jewish mourning period after burying our son Hersh (of blessed memory) on Monday. Earlier tonight, Hamas released a new video of him, taken while he was being held hostage in the tunnels underneath Gaza. This must serve as an immediate wake-up call to the world to take action today to secure the release of the remaining 101 hostages before it is too late. No other family should go through what our family (and the families of the other recently executed hostages) have endured."
The Hamas announcement read, "Al-Qassam Brigades announcement: Tonight at 11 p.m., the murdered Hersh Goldberg-Polin will speak. #Time_Is_Running_Out #Government_Of_Lies," the terror organization said in an earlier announcement.  This message follows the recent videos published by Hamas on Telegram of Eden Yerushalmi, Alex Lobanov, and Carmel Gat, three of the six hostages murdered in a Hamas tunnel by the terrorist group. Hersh is the fourth hostage video released of the six. Screenshot of Hamas's threat to release the last messages of the hostages, September 2, 2024. (credit: screenshot)The videos of Ori Danino and Almog Sarusi are expected to be released in the upcoming days, according to Hamas.Videos blame PM NetanyahuThe videos have depicted the hostages blaming Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu and his government for purposefully stalling a hostage deal, accusing him of letting them die at the hands of Hamas.Goldberg-Polin's parents, Rachel and Jon said, "We are in the midst of the seven-day Jewish mourning period after burying our son Hersh (of blessed memory) on Monday. Earlier tonight, Hamas released a new video of him, taken while he was being held hostage in the tunnels underneath Gaza. This must serve as an immediate wake-up call to the world to take action today to secure the release of the remaining 101 hostages before it is too late. No other family should go through what our family (and the families of the other recently executed hostages) have endured."
This message follows the recent videos published by Hamas on Telegram of Eden Yerushalmi, Alex Lobanov, and Carmel Gat, three of the six hostages murdered in a Hamas tunnel by the terrorist group. Hersh is the fourth hostage video released of the six. Screenshot of Hamas's threat to release the last messages of the hostages, September 2, 2024. (credit: screenshot)The videos of Ori Danino and Almog Sarusi are expected to be released in the upcoming days, according to Hamas.Videos blame PM NetanyahuThe videos have depicted the hostages blaming Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu and his government for purposefully stalling a hostage deal, accusing him of letting them die at the hands of Hamas.Goldberg-Polin's parents, Rachel and Jon said, "We are in the midst of the seven-day Jewish mourning period after burying our son Hersh (of blessed memory) on Monday. Earlier tonight, Hamas released a new video of him, taken while he was being held hostage in the tunnels underneath Gaza. This must serve as an immediate wake-up call to the world to take action today to secure the release of the remaining 101 hostages before it is too late. No other family should go through what our family (and the families of the other recently executed hostages) have endured."
The videos of Ori Danino and Almog Sarusi are expected to be released in the upcoming days, according to Hamas.Videos blame PM NetanyahuThe videos have depicted the hostages blaming Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu and his government for purposefully stalling a hostage deal, accusing him of letting them die at the hands of Hamas.Goldberg-Polin's parents, Rachel and Jon said, "We are in the midst of the seven-day Jewish mourning period after burying our son Hersh (of blessed memory) on Monday. Earlier tonight, Hamas released a new video of him, taken while he was being held hostage in the tunnels underneath Gaza. This must serve as an immediate wake-up call to the world to take action today to secure the release of the remaining 101 hostages before it is too late. No other family should go through what our family (and the families of the other recently executed hostages) have endured."
The videos have depicted the hostages blaming Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu and his government for purposefully stalling a hostage deal, accusing him of letting them die at the hands of Hamas.Goldberg-Polin's parents, Rachel and Jon said, "We are in the midst of the seven-day Jewish mourning period after burying our son Hersh (of blessed memory) on Monday. Earlier tonight, Hamas released a new video of him, taken while he was being held hostage in the tunnels underneath Gaza. This must serve as an immediate wake-up call to the world to take action today to secure the release of the remaining 101 hostages before it is too late. No other family should go through what our family (and the families of the other recently executed hostages) have endured."
Goldberg-Polin's parents, Rachel and Jon said, "We are in the midst of the seven-day Jewish mourning period after burying our son Hersh (of blessed memory) on Monday. Earlier tonight, Hamas released a new video of him, taken while he was being held hostage in the tunnels underneath Gaza. This must serve as an immediate wake-up call to the world to take action today to secure the release of the remaining 101 hostages before it is too late. No other family should go through what our family (and the families of the other recently executed hostages) have endured."
