Victim of Sunday Tarkumiya attack was father of policewoman killed on Oct.7
MAARIV
SEPTEMBER 1, 2024 14:09
20240901
https://www.jpost.com/breaking-news/article-817262
One of the three police officers murdered in Sunday's terror attack at the Tarkumiya checkpoint is the father of police officer Mor Shekuri,was the father of police officer Mor Shakuri, who was killed defending Sderot on October 7.A month before Roni Shakuri was supposed to hold a memorial ceremony marking his daughter’s death, he and two other officers from the Hebron police station were killed in an ambush by terrorists.Sgt.-Maj. Mor Shakuri, 29, from Sderot, was killed in a battle against terrorists at the police station in the city on October 7. At the time, she was preparing for her wedding with her fiancé, David Pokal.  “Every place Mor entered radiated light and laughter; she was always smiling, and that’s what people will remember about her,” her sister, Sapir Shitrit, told Maariv. Mor Shakuri. (credit: COURTESY OF THE FAMILY)Wedding scheduled for June“While serving at the Ashkelon police station, Mor met David, also a police officer, who became her fiancé. They shared a great love together. Last May, Mor received a marriage proposal during an event that David organized at Kibbutz Yad Mordechai. During her shift, she was called to respond to a police incident at the kibbutz, and then she was surprised with her own marriage proposal.“She was surprised and emotional, eagerly awaiting the moment she would stand under the huppah, build her own home, and become a mother. At some point, she requested to transfer to the Sderot police station while David remained at the Ashkelon police station. They had already signed a contract to purchase a new house, which they were supposed to move into in three months, and they planned to get married this coming June.“Thirty terrorists barricaded themselves in that station, and she retreated to the roof of the police station with six other officers. Together with her team, she neutralized every terrorist who tried to reach the roof, even as the terrorists were throwing grenades at it. Meanwhile, she contacted my mother and said her goodbyes – words that I don’t know where she found the strength to say – while she was applying a tourniquet to a wounded person, saving his life. She was on top of the situation until a sniper from one of the nearby rooftops shot her, and she died instantly.”
A month before Roni Shakuri was supposed to hold a memorial ceremony marking his daughter’s death, he and two other officers from the Hebron police station were killed in an ambush by terrorists.Sgt.-Maj. Mor Shakuri, 29, from Sderot, was killed in a battle against terrorists at the police station in the city on October 7. At the time, she was preparing for her wedding with her fiancé, David Pokal.  “Every place Mor entered radiated light and laughter; she was always smiling, and that’s what people will remember about her,” her sister, Sapir Shitrit, told Maariv. Mor Shakuri. (credit: COURTESY OF THE FAMILY)Wedding scheduled for June“While serving at the Ashkelon police station, Mor met David, also a police officer, who became her fiancé. They shared a great love together. Last May, Mor received a marriage proposal during an event that David organized at Kibbutz Yad Mordechai. During her shift, she was called to respond to a police incident at the kibbutz, and then she was surprised with her own marriage proposal.“She was surprised and emotional, eagerly awaiting the moment she would stand under the huppah, build her own home, and become a mother. At some point, she requested to transfer to the Sderot police station while David remained at the Ashkelon police station. They had already signed a contract to purchase a new house, which they were supposed to move into in three months, and they planned to get married this coming June.“Thirty terrorists barricaded themselves in that station, and she retreated to the roof of the police station with six other officers. Together with her team, she neutralized every terrorist who tried to reach the roof, even as the terrorists were throwing grenades at it. Meanwhile, she contacted my mother and said her goodbyes – words that I don’t know where she found the strength to say – while she was applying a tourniquet to a wounded person, saving his life. She was on top of the situation until a sniper from one of the nearby rooftops shot her, and she died instantly.”
“While serving at the Ashkelon police station, Mor met David, also a police officer, who became her fiancé. They shared a great love together. Last May, Mor received a marriage proposal during an event that David organized at Kibbutz Yad Mordechai. During her shift, she was called to respond to a police incident at the kibbutz, and then she was surprised with her own marriage proposal.“She was surprised and emotional, eagerly awaiting the moment she would stand under the huppah, build her own home, and become a mother. At some point, she requested to transfer to the Sderot police station while David remained at the Ashkelon police station. They had already signed a contract to purchase a new house, which they were supposed to move into in three months, and they planned to get married this coming June.“Thirty terrorists barricaded themselves in that station, and she retreated to the roof of the police station with six other officers. Together with her team, she neutralized every terrorist who tried to reach the roof, even as the terrorists were throwing grenades at it. Meanwhile, she contacted my mother and said her goodbyes – words that I don’t know where she found the strength to say – while she was applying a tourniquet to a wounded person, saving his life. She was on top of the situation until a sniper from one of the nearby rooftops shot her, and she died instantly.”
