Smuggled in car with yellow hostage ribbon: Police arrest five illegal Palestinian entrants
JERUSALEM POST STAFF
SEPTEMBER 4, 2024 08:55
20240904
https://www.jpost.com/israel-news/article-818664
Border police officers arrested a Palestinian who attempted to Illegally smuggle four additional Palestinians into Israel while they were crossing the az-Za'ayyem checkpoint in the vicinity of Jerusalem, Israel Police said on Wednesday. Security forces noted that the vehicle, which came from the West Bank, sported a yellow ribbon symbolizing support for the hostages detained in Hamas captivity and a car air freshener with an Israeli flag. Police said the Border police officers subsequently examined the car and found that the driver attempted to illegally enter Israel from the West Bank. With her were an additional four Palestinians, with one being hidden in the trunk. In addition, troops found in the vehicle Israeli flags, a Yarmulke, a wig, and Palestinian license plates.   Indictment filed The police specified that these license plates had been exchanged with Israeli license plates taken from an Israeli car. Israeli soldiers check cars at a checkpoint near the West Bank City of Jericho (credit: REUTERS)An indictment was filed against four of the Palestinians on charges of attempting to enter or reside in Israel illegally. The arrest of the driver of the vehicle was prolonged.
Security forces noted that the vehicle, which came from the West Bank, sported a yellow ribbon symbolizing support for the hostages detained in Hamas captivity and a car air freshener with an Israeli flag. Police said the Border police officers subsequently examined the car and found that the driver attempted to illegally enter Israel from the West Bank. With her were an additional four Palestinians, with one being hidden in the trunk. In addition, troops found in the vehicle Israeli flags, a Yarmulke, a wig, and Palestinian license plates.   Indictment filed The police specified that these license plates had been exchanged with Israeli license plates taken from an Israeli car. Israeli soldiers check cars at a checkpoint near the West Bank City of Jericho (credit: REUTERS)An indictment was filed against four of the Palestinians on charges of attempting to enter or reside in Israel illegally. The arrest of the driver of the vehicle was prolonged.
Police said the Border police officers subsequently examined the car and found that the driver attempted to illegally enter Israel from the West Bank. With her were an additional four Palestinians, with one being hidden in the trunk. In addition, troops found in the vehicle Israeli flags, a Yarmulke, a wig, and Palestinian license plates.   Indictment filed The police specified that these license plates had been exchanged with Israeli license plates taken from an Israeli car. Israeli soldiers check cars at a checkpoint near the West Bank City of Jericho (credit: REUTERS)An indictment was filed against four of the Palestinians on charges of attempting to enter or reside in Israel illegally. The arrest of the driver of the vehicle was prolonged.
The police specified that these license plates had been exchanged with Israeli license plates taken from an Israeli car. Israeli soldiers check cars at a checkpoint near the West Bank City of Jericho (credit: REUTERS)An indictment was filed against four of the Palestinians on charges of attempting to enter or reside in Israel illegally. The arrest of the driver of the vehicle was prolonged.
Israeli soldiers check cars at a checkpoint near the West Bank City of Jericho (credit: REUTERS)An indictment was filed against four of the Palestinians on charges of attempting to enter or reside in Israel illegally. The arrest of the driver of the vehicle was prolonged.
An indictment was filed against four of the Palestinians on charges of attempting to enter or reside in Israel illegally. The arrest of the driver of the vehicle was prolonged.
