"Our momentum in UAVs is admired across the world"
Presidency of The Republic of Turkey
_
20240901
https://www.globalsecurity.org/wmd/library/news/turkey/2024/turkey-240831-turkey-president01.htm
Presidency of The Republic of Turkey
31.08.2024
Speaking at the Air War College Commencement and Flag Handover Ceremony, President Erdoğan said: "The momentum we have achieved in unmanned aerial vehicles is admired not only by friendly and brotherly nations, but also across the whole world. As you know, we are one of the top 3-4 countries in the world in this field."
President Recep Tayyip Erdoğan delivered a speech at the Commencement and Flag Handover Ceremony at Air War College in Istanbul.
Congratulating the 198 cadets, graduating today, President Erdoğan   said: "In the last 8 years, 1379 cadets, including 126 guests, have   graduated from the Air War College."
"WE STRENGTHENED OUR MILITARY IN EVERY FIELD"
Highlighting the tremendous progress over the last 8 years, President   Erdoğan said: "Let me underscore once again that the Turkish Armed   Forces have managed to overcome one of the most severe tests, a military   can face, with the least damage possible. We not only uprooted that   treacherous gang called the FETO, which had grown like a malignant tumor   for nearly 40 years, but also strengthened our military in every   field."
Thanking everyone who contributes to building the Century of Türkiye,   President Erdoğan said: "Our aviators, who are our source of pride with   their wings of steel, also play critical roles in the defense of our   homeland. Our Air Forces take great responsibilities in eliminating   threats to the security of our country, especially in the fight against   terror. We are endeavoring to strengthen our Air Force in every field   with the motto 'The future is in the skies'. "The momentum we have   achieved in unmanned aerial vehicles is admired not only by friendly and   brotherly nations, but also across the whole world. As you know, we are   one of the top 3-4 countries in the world in this field. Turkish UCAVs   produced by our companies are used in more than 50 countries from Europe   to Asia, Africa to the Middle East," President Erdoğan said.
"With the commissioning of Kızılelma and ANKA-3, which are currently   being tested, we will be a player in a new league in this field. KAAN,   our national combat aircraft, is one of our most exciting projects.   While developing our 5th generation fighter jet, we are   simultaneously modernizing our F-16s. We use our ATAK helicopters very   effectively in the fight against terror. We will also meet an important   need with our multi-purpose helicopter GÖKBEY and our training aircraft   HÜRJET. In the EFES-2024 Exercise, many of our systems, especially   HÜRJET and GÖKBEY, took part for the first time," President Erdoğan   said.
"Inshallah, we will accomplish our 'Steel Dome' project, which we   will develop as a system of systems, with all its components. If they   have the Iron Dome, we will have the Steel Dome. The Steel Dome will   enable our layered air defense systems and all our sensors and weapons   to work integrated with each other. From missiles to air defense   systems, we strive to produce, develop or procure whatever our Air Force   needs for the defense of the homeland without hesitation," President   Erdoğan said.
"WE WILL NOT MAKE THE MISTAKE OF PUTTING ALL OUR EGGS IN ONE BASKET"
Pointing to the importance of Türkiye's progress in defense industry   in the last 22 years in the face of regional developments, President   Erdoğan said: "Every sagacious and wise person can easily see this fact.   Türkiye is a country that has to take the matters into its own hands.   In the Syrian crisis, we have all seen how the alliances we are a member   of behaved in case of our need. Except for one or two countries, they   even refrained from sending Patriot batteries. They did not hesitate to   openly support the Syrian extension of the PKK and welcome the   ringleaders of the separatist terrorist organization with red carpets. I   do not even need to count here the overt and covert embargoes and   export restrictions we have been subjected to in the field of defense   industry."
Stating that Türkiye has always faced the same obstacles, from the   Cyprus Peace Operation to the cross-border operations against terrorist   organizations in recent years, President Erdoğan said: "Always   ambivalent attitudes... Allah forbid, if something happens to our   country tomorrow, it is highly probable that we will face the same   situation again. Therefore, whatever we do as a state, we do it in the   light of these painful experiences of the past. We do not rely on anyone   other than our own abilities and our own strength. Apart from our   brothers and sisters whom we have always stood by us in our difficult   times, we rely only on our nation, we rely on our own human resources.   We will continue on our path in the same way. Of course, we will not   turn our backs on those who want to walk with us, but we will not make   the mistake of putting all our eggs in one basket."



