Comprehensive national defense exercise "Namejs 2024" to take place in Latvia
Republic of Latvia - Ministry of Defence
_
20240903
https://www.globalsecurity.org/military/library/news/2024/09/mil-240902-latvia-mod01.htm
Republic of Latvia - Ministry of Defence
09/02/2024 - 18:30  In Latvia  Military exercise  Capabilities
Information prepared by Communications Division of the Information Analysis and Management Department of the National Armed Forces Headquarters
From September 3rd to October 8th, the National Armed Forces will conduct comprehensive national defense exercise "Namejs 2024" across Latvia.
The "Namejs 2024" exercise will involve soldiers from  all National Armed Forces units, including Conscript Service soldiers, reserve soldiers, and soldiers from allied armed forces.
To enhance and strengthen the ability to perform tasks in the event of a national threat, "Namejs 2024" will involve collaboration with the Civil Protection Operational Management Center, including the State Chancellery, sectoral ministries, their subordinate institutions, national security agencies, several municipalities, and commercial entities, providing necessary support for national defense needs, thereby strengthening Latvia's comprehensive national defense system.
The exercise is organized in collaboration with the NATO Multinational Division North Headquarters. In the exercise will participate allied soldiers from the United States, Estonia, and Lithuania, NATO multinational battle groups as part of the Land Forces Mechanized Infantry Brigade, the NATO Multinational Brigade Headquarters in Latvia, the NATO Force Integration Unit Latvia, and the Canadian Armed Forces Task Force Latvia. The exercises will be supported by the Joint Expeditionary Force and representatives from various NATO headquarters.
Approximately 11,000 Latvian and allied soldiers and National Guard members will participate in the exercises.
As part of "Namejs 2024", the National Armed Forces plan to conduct a three day mobilization exercise in September for a limited number of personnel to test and further improve mobilization mechanisms. This exercise will take place in the area of responsibility of the National Guard 3rd Latgale Brigade.
During the comprehensive national defense exercise "Namejs 2024", the National Armed Forces, in collaboration with the State Border Guard, will continue strengthening border security measures. It is planned to begin deploying purchased counter mobility materials in nature, primarily for road blocking, as well as fortifying the infrastructure of State Border Guard checkpoints and units.
Responding to changing security challenges, Latvia's national defense system must be comprehensive, relying on the readiness of the entire society and state institutions to overcome crises and resist external influence. The comprehensive national defense system includes not only national defense and state administration institutions but also representatives of the private sector, businesses, non-governmental organizations, citizens, and other individuals. The goal of a comprehensive national defense system is to promote the functioning of vital national functions by establishing a planning, coordination, and partnership system between state institutions, the private sector, non-governmental organizations, and citizens. The practical task of the comprehensive national defense system is to assign each state institution specific tasks and roles in national defense.
The "Namejs" exercise have been planned in advance and have been taking place throughout Latvia since 2014. The regular conduct of military exercises plays a crucial role in maintaining and strengthening the combat capabilities of the National Armed Forces, which must always be at a high level. The Armed Forces must always be ready to respond promptly and effectively to potential threats and ensure Latvia's security. Strengthening cooperation with state and municipal institutions, various sectoral businesses, and their involvement in the exercises strengthens Latvia's comprehensive national defense system.
For Public Awareness:
Throughout the autumn period, intensive exercises will take place across Latvia, during which Latvian and allied soldiers and military equipment will move along Latvia's main and regional roads. Military aircraft will conduct flights in Latvian airspace, including at low altitudes, and live fire exercises will be held in training areas.
We encourage everyone to follow the latest information about the exercises in Latvia's regions on the National Armed Forces' social media accounts, as well as on the National Armed Forces' website and municipal websites.  During the exercises, an information hotline will be available: +371 28637064.
If you notice suspicious activities, please contact the State Security Service via the 24-hour phone line +371 6720 8964, or by email at info@vdd.gov.lv.
For suspicious activities near the border, please report to the National Coordination Center of the State Border Guard via the 24-hour phone lines +371 67075616 and +371 67075718.
We thank the public for their support during the exercises! Let's protect Latvia together!
National Armed Forces Headquarters
Information Analysis and Management Department  Communications Division  Email: prese@mil.lv  Phone: +371 67071032


