New Aid Package, Strengthening Air Defense, and Patronage Over Zaporizhzhia: President Held Talks with Dutch Prime Minister
President of Ukraine
_
20240903
https://www.globalsecurity.org/wmd/library/news/ukraine/2024/09/ukraine-240902-ukraine-president02.htm
President of Ukraine
2 September 2024 - 17:34
In Zaporizhzhia, President of Ukraine Volodymyr Zelenskyy held negotiations with Prime Minister of the Netherlands Dick Schoof.
The President thanked the Dutch Prime Minister for visiting Zaporizhzhia, which is located just a few dozen kilometers from the frontlines. He proposed that the Netherlands take patronage over thee Zaporizhzhia region, particularly in areas such as energy needs, school protection, and shelter construction.
The discussions focused on strengthening Ukraine's defense against Russian terror and advancing towards a just peace for Ukraine.
"The key priorities are air defense, the supply of Patriot systems and missiles, and increasing our fleet of F-16s. We have ideas on this. Additionally, defense packages for Ukraine - ammunition, equipment - and sanctions against Russia - everything necessary to prevent Russia from opening new fronts against Ukraine," the President stated.
Volodymyr Zelenskyy also highlighted that the Netherlands is a leader in the air defense and F-16 coalitions, as well as in implementing the justice-related points of the Peace Formula. The Netherlands is also actively involved in joint efforts to hold Russia accountable for the war.
"It is crucial that we work together to ensure that Putin personally, and all those carrying out his madness, are held accountable for this aggression - for the murders of Ukrainians, the deportation of children, and all other crimes of this war," the President said.
The parties also discussed increasing sanctions pressure on Russia, ensuring shelters are in place, assisting Ukraine's energy sector, and preparing for the next NATO Summit, which will be held in the Netherlands.
Dick Schoof assured of continued support for Ukraine in defending against Russian aggression and announced a new aid package focused on supporting the energy system, which will include demining equipment, medical assistance, and more.
Additionally, in Zaporizhzhia, Volodymyr Zelenskyy and Dick Schoof listened to a briefing from representatives of the Ukrainian Air Force and the Defense Intelligence on the specifics of Russian air terror, including the tactics of using missiles, drones, and guided aerial bombs against civilian targets and energy infrastructure. They emphasized the need for efforts to stop this terror, including granting Ukraine the authorization and means to strike at airbases and increasing sanctions pressure on Russia. Dick Schoof was provided with detailed information about the missiles Russia is using against Ukraine and the extent to which they contain Western components - both American and European.
"We appreciate that the Netherlands has taken the lead and will work with us. I've asked them to also work with other partners to ensure that the sanctions are truly effective and fully work against this war," the President added.  v  Videos


