Iranian Police Commander Fired After Death In Custody
_
_
20240901
https://www.globalsecurity.org/wmd/library/news/iran/2024/iran-240831-rferl01.htm

By RFE/RL's Radio Farda August 31, 2024
Iran's police force has fired the police commander in the city of Lahijan shortly after the death in custody of Mohammad Mirmusavi.
In announcement issued late on August 30, the national police command said the Lahijan commander was dismissed for "lack of sufficient supervision over the performance and behavior of employees."
Earlier, rights activists published a video of Mirmusavi's lifeless body and alleged that he had died "due to a severe beating."
The August 30 police statement said officials were awaiting a final report on the "cause of the death of this citizen."
A police statement earlier on August 30 said local police in the city in the northern Gilan Province had exhibited a "lack of anger control" in handling Mirmusavi. A police station commander and several officers were reportedly suspended.
Mirmusavi was arrested on August 24 after being involved in a fight. The Norway-based Kurdish rights group Hengaw said on August 28 that Mirmusavi died the day of his arrest, but it was not known whether his body had been handed over to relatives.
The incident occurred shortly before the second anniversary of the death in custody of Mahsa Amini in September 2022. Amini, a 22-year-old Kurdish woman, died after being detained by Iran's so-called morality police for allegedly violating the country's strict Islamic dress code.
Her death sparked national outrage and a wave of anti-government protests.
Javad Ruhi, who was involved in the Amini protests, died in custody under unclear circumstances in September 2023. Ruhi's supporters said he had been told he would "never leave prison alive."
Following Ruhi's death, Amnesty International called for those responsible to be "criminally investigated and held to account," adding that his "death in custody again exposes the Iranian authorities' assault on the right to life."

Source: https://www.rferl.org/a/iran-police- rights-torture-gilan/33100686.html
Copyright (c) 2024. RFE/RL, Inc. Reprinted with the permission of Radio Free Europe/Radio Liberty, 1201 Connecticut Ave., N.W. Washington DC 20036.


