First phase of polio campaign concludes successfully in Gaza
_
_
20240905
https://www.globalsecurity.org/military/library/news/2024/09/mil-240904-who01.htm
4 September 2024  News release  Jerusalem, Amman, Geneva
Over 187 000 children under ten years of age were   vaccinated with novel oral polio vaccine type 2 (nOPV2) in central Gaza   during the first phase of a two-round polio vaccination campaign,   conducted between 1-3 September 2024. Vaccination coverage in this   phase exceeded the initial estimated target of 157 000 children due to   population movement towards central Gaza, and expanded coverage in areas   outside the humanitarian pause zone.
To ensure no child is   missed in this area, polio vaccination will continue at four large   health facilities in central Gaza over the next few days. Vaccine doses   have been supplied to these sites to meet any additional needs.
"It   has been extremely encouraging to see thousands of children being able   to access polio vaccines, with the support of their resilient families   and courageous health workers, despite the deplorable conditions they   have braved over the last 11 months. All parties respected the   humanitarian pause and we hope to see this positive momentum continue,"   said Dr Richard Peeperkorn, WHO Representative for the occupied   Palestinian territory.
The first phase of the campaign was   conducted by 513 teams, consisting of over 2180 health and community   outreach workers. Vaccination was provided at 143 fixed sites, including   hospitals, medical points, primary care centres, camps where displaced   people are living, key public gathering spaces such as temporary   learning spaces, food and water distribution points, and transit routes   leading from central towards northern and southern Gaza. Additionally,   mobile teams visited tents and hard to-reach areas to ensure they   reached families who were unable to visit fixed sites. The presence of a   substantial number of children eligible for vaccination who were unable   to reach vaccination sites due to insecurity, necessitated special   missions to Al-Maghazi, Al-Bureij and Al-Mussader - areas just outside   of the agreed zone for the humanitarian pause.
Preparations   are underway to roll out the next phase of the campaign, which will be   conducted in southern Gaza from 5-8 September 2024, targeting an   estimated 340 000 children below ten years of age. Some 517 teams,   including 384 mobile teams, will be deployed. Nearly 300 community   outreach workers have already begun outreach to families in southern   Gaza to raise awareness about the campaign, while 490 vaccine carriers,   90 cold storage boxes, and other supplies have been transferred to Khan   Younis for distribution to vaccination sites.
The third and last   phase of the polio vaccination campaign will be implemented in northern   Gaza from 9-11 September 2024, targeting around 150 000 children.
At   least 90% vaccination coverage during each round of the campaign is   needed to stop the outbreak, prevent the international spread of polio   and reduce the risk of its re-emergence, given the severely disrupted   health, water and sanitation systems in the Gaza Strip. Vaccination   coverage will be monitored throughout the campaign, and, when necessary,   vaccinations will be extended to meet coverage targets as part of   flexible strategies to ensure every eligible child receives their   vaccine dose.
The two-round campaign, being conducted by the   Palestinian Ministry of Health (MOH), in collaboration with the World   Health Organization (WHO) and United Nations Children Fund (UNICEF), the   United Nations Relief and Works Agency for Palestine Refugees (UNRWA)   and many partners, aims to provide two drops of nOPV2 to around 640 000   children during each round.
"The successful delivery of the   first phase of the campaign in central Gaza is a culmination of immense   coordination among various partners, including the Global Polio   Eradication Initiative (GPEI) and donors, and underscores the importance   of peace for the health and well-being of people in Gaza. We call on   all parties to continue fulfilling their commitment to the humanitarian   pauses as the second phase of the campaign begins tomorrow," said Dr   Peeperkorn.

Notes to editors



