Wider Europe Briefing: The Mood Is Somber On Ukraine
_
_
20240904
https://www.globalsecurity.org/wmd/library/news/ukraine/2024/09/ukraine-240903-rferl04.htm

By Rikard Jozwiak September 03, 2024
Over the weekend, the biggest gathering of think tanks in Central   Europe, the Globsec forum, took place in Prague. The theme was "Taming   The Storm," a reference to the myriad challenges facing Europe -- from   Russia's war in Ukraine and the malign influence of China to a potential   new American president less invested in the continent and the   disruptive effects of artificial intelligence (AI).
Despite the ominous theme, this year's Globsec was actually rather uneventful, especially when compared to last year. Back then, French President Emmanuel Macron stole the show by telling   the largely Central European crowd they were right all along about   Vladimir Putin and that Paris had got its assessment of the Russian   president terribly wrong.
There were also frenetic (and ultimately failed) efforts to get the   Serbian and Kosovar leaders to dial down the tension in the region, and   European Commission President Ursula von der Leyen promised (and   subsequently delivered) on a 6 billion euro ($6.6 billion) growth plan   for the Western Balkans for the next three years.
Perhaps the most significant aspect of this year's Globsec was that   it didn't take place in Bratislava, the forum's home for the previous 18   years. Shortly after coming to power in the fall of 2023, the left-wing   populist Slovak Prime Minister Robert Fico withdrew both political   backing and economic support for the forum, even though he was a big   proponent of the event during his previous stints in office.
That appears to be a continuation of Bratislava's concerted effort to   target various institutions and follows its taking-over of the   governance of Slovak state TV in the spring and, more recently, sacking   the heads of prominent cultural institutions around the country.
Prague provided a welcome refuge for the forum this time around --   and the Czech capital will be the host again in 2025 After that, who   knows? It looks likely the Czech Republic will have its own populist,   Andrej Babis, back in power next fall.
Even though Globsec is under the auspices of the pro-Western Czech   President Petr Pavel, I heard from more than a few people at the   three-day gathering that Warsaw is being considered as an alternative   host.
Von Der Leyen Comes Out Swinging...
With no Macron this time, nor the German chancellor or the Ukrainian   president, center stage was taken by the newly re-elected von der Leyen.   In an apparent swipe at the governments of Hungary and Slovakia, which   both have questioned the usefulness of more financial and military   support for Ukraine, she noted that "today, some politicians inside our   union, and even in this part of Europe, are muddying the waters of our   conversation about Ukraine. They blame the war not on the invader but on   the invaded; not on Putin's lust for power but on Ukraine's thirst for   freedom. So, I want to ask them: Would you ever blame Hungarians for the   Soviet invasion of 1956? Would you ever blame Czechs for the Soviet   repression of 1968? The answer to these questions is very clear: The   Kremlin's behavior was illegal and atrocious back then. And the   Kremlin's behavior is illegal and atrocious today."
Von der Leyen also saved some strong salvos for Hungarian Prime   Minister Viktor Orban, who, in July, embarked on a much-publicized   "peace mission" to Moscow and Beijing.
"We Europeans have many different histories. We speak many different   languages, but in no language is peace synonymous with surrender," she   said. "In no language is sovereignty synonymous with occupation. So,   those who argue to stop support for Ukraine do not argue for peace. They   argue for appeasement and the subjugation of Ukraine."
...And Budapest Hits Back
While most participants at Globsec tended to echo von der Leyen's   view, it was interesting to hear a different take from a representative   of the Hungarian government. In one of the tensest sessions over the   weekend, Orban's political director, Balasz Orban (no relation),   hammered home Budapest's point of view.
It would be good, Balasz Orban said, for Europe to stop "endless wars   and bring peace." He underlined that this was a view shared around the   world and that it was only what he called the "transatlantic liberal   elite" who are in opposition to the idea.
He then pointed out that Russia has gained territories, that the war   has caused millions of Ukrainian refugees to flee, that hundreds of   thousands have died on both sides, that the Ukrainian economy is in   ruins and bankrolled by the West. He then bluntly asked how long this   could continue.
It was only when he said Ukraine would soon become "Europe's   problem," as even the Democrats in the United States would realize that   they couldn't finance the war for too much longer, that one of the other   panelists, U.S. diplomat Kurt Volker, retorted that that would still be   better than Europe having Russia "as your problem."
A Cold Winter Ahead
Amid all the bullish talk at the conference of Ukraine's urgent needs   and the West needing to step up, the mood heading into the fall felt   decidedly sober.
Sure, many did sense a smidgen of optimism with Ukraine's already   weeks-long incursion into Russia's Kursk region. Experts agreed Kyiv   could benefit both from the buffer zone it offers and use the hundreds   of Russian prisoners of war as a useful bargaining chip in potential   future negotiations.
But as the Prague forum took place, there was news of the Russian   Army edging closer to the key Ukrainian hub of Pokrovsk, with the path   to Ukraine's fourth-largest city Dnipropetrovsk suddenly opening up. The   EU's ambassador to Ukraine, Katarina Mathernova, noted that, in the   summer, military support from the bloc is at the same level as it was in   spring 2022 -- down to a trickle -- and added that Ukrainians "cannot   shoot commitments, but need real ammunition." She also warned about the   possibility of a "cold and dark winter," with Russia hampering around 70   percent of Ukraine's prewar energy production.
Another telling admittance was from former Dutch Defense Minister   Kajsa Ollongren, who bluntly spelled out that the Ukraine Compact, a   security framework signed by all 32 NATO allies at the Washington, D.C.,   summit in July, was "a bit of window dressing," although she hastened   to add that bilateral security deals between Kyiv and various Western   capitals were still meaningful. While several European diplomats have   confessed this to me privately, it was still a sobering assessment to   hear it spoken out loud.
It went on in much the same fashion. In one session, Anders Carp, the   deputy CEO of Saab, the Swedish aerospace and defense company, gave   perhaps the most chilling comment of the weekend when he noted that   European nations must continue to give special training to Ukrainian   troops as "many of the Ukrainian soldiers we have trained are now dead."
Outspoken Estonian Defense Minister Hanno Pevkur asked whether "we   want Ukraine to fight or do we want Ukraine to win," adding that the   West is again failing to give the country what it needs.
There are some promising signs. Last week, NATO ambassadors met with   Ukrainian Defense Minister Rustem Umerov, and EU defense ministers met   among themselves in Brussels, to discuss the issue of lifting more   Western restrictions on Ukraine striking inside Russia.
Despite the meetings, according to EU diplomatic sources speaking on   background, there is no real movement on this yet, and Germany, Italy,   the United States, and others, remain wary. Speaking about the   restrictions, Pevkur said it was "like asking a boxer to fight with one   hand behind the back."
Money Issues And Political Will
Ultimately, it all comes down to money and political will in the   West. The Estonian defense minister was again blunt, noting that, apart   from the issue of cash, the arms industry needed to plan, as there are   stringent environmental assessments required for expansion and it often   takes more than 18 months to navigate the bureaucracy.
In Russia, he pointed out, there are no restrictions. "If Putin   decides that a sausage factory should produce weapons the next day, it's   decided," he said.
With that in mind, it was illuminating to listen to Angus Lapsley,   who is in charge of defense planning at NATO. While the military   alliance now proudly states that a record number of 23 out of 32 allies   have reached the target of spending 2 percent or more of national gross   domestic product (GDP), Lapsley noted that spending needs to increase by   another third, or, in some cases, double. The Cold War average for NATO   was 3.5 percent of GDP, he added.
He highlighted numerous capacity gaps that the alliance needed to   fill: ammunition, spare parts, air defense, long-range strike   capabilities. He also said that even apparently straightforward measures   such as improved integrated communications and information systems were   necessary, as the militaries of various countries were sometimes unable   to even send e-mails to one another.
A Feisty Balkan Clash
One surprise was when Serbian President Aleksandar Vucic said Ukraine   will be a member of the EU by 2030. It wasn't clear if his comment was   made in jest, as he was speaking at a rather turbulent session. Sharing   the stage with Montenegrin President Jakov Mijatovic, Vucic scoffed at   Mijatovic's stated goal that Podgorica will be a member of the bloc by   2028.
Vucic dismissed the idea that a Western Balkan state will join the EU   this decade, saying only Kyiv has a chance. The two Balkan leaders then   had a testy exchange over whether the Montenegrin language was in fact   Serbian, and Vucic slammed Podgorica for recognizing Kosovo's   independence in 2008.
Vucic continued in similar combative fashion, dismissing the notion   that Belgrade was a Kremlin Trojan horse trying to enter the EU and   spelling out that he hadn't been in touch with Russian President   Vladimir Putin in over two years (although though people in his   entourage had).
The Serbian president said that "the interests of the EU are from   time to time different to our interests," adding that the main   impediment to Belgrade's continued EU integration was its relations with   Kosovo, rather than with Russia.
The EU-sponsored dialogue between Belgrade and Pristina, which has   been going on since 2011, has not seen much progress over the last few   years. Judging from the mood in Prague this weekend, he said, it was   hard to believe that will change.
The EU's Foreign Affairs Council last week was moved from Budapest to   Brussels, following outrage over Orban's trip to Moscow in July. But   the bloc's General Affairs Council, which brings together member states'   Europe ministers, will take place in the Hungarian capital on September   3.
Some countries, notably the Baltic trio and Finland, have already   said they won't send ministers to the event, so we'll see if others   follow suit.


Source: https://www.rferl.org/a/wider-europe-briefing-globsec- ukraine-/33102804.html
Copyright (c) 2024. RFE/RL, Inc. Reprinted with the permission of Radio Free Europe/Radio Liberty, 1201 Connecticut Ave., N.W. Washington DC 20036.


