China, Philippines trade blame over "ramming" at disputed shoal
_
_
20240901
https://www.globalsecurity.org/military/library/news/2024/08/mil-240831-rfa01.htm

The Philippines says the incident is the fifth time China has harassed its vessels in the area in August.
By RFA Staff 2024.08.31 -- China and the Philippines traded accusations of ramming each other's vessels on Saturday at a disputed shoal in the South China Sea, marking an apparent escalation in an already tense situation in the area.
Jay Tarriela, spokesperson for the Philippine National Task Force for the West Philippine Sea - part of South China Sea over which the Philippines claims jurisdiction - said that a Chinese coast guard vessel "deliberately rammed and collided" three times with a Philippine coast guard ship "despite no provocation" from the Philippine side.
The Philippine vessel, BRP Teresa Magbanua, has been on deployment at Sabina Shoal, known in the Philippines as Escoda Shoal, since April to monitor what the Philippines fears is China's plan to reclaim land at the shoal.
Tarriela told a press briefing in Manila that the incident was the fifth case of harassment by China of Philippine ships operating in the area in August. He said there were no reports of any injuries to Philippine personnel.
A Chinese coast guard spokesperson accused the Philippines of provocation at the shoal, which both sides claim but which lies entirely within the Philippine exclusive economic zone, or EEZ, where the Philippines holds rights to explore for natural resources.
The Chinese coast guard ship 5205 "lawfully issued verbal warnings and conducted monitoring and control measures" against the Philippine ship which "continued its provocations at China's Xianbin Jiao," Chinese coast guard spokesperson Liu Dejun said, referring to the shoal by its Chinese name.
At around midday, the Philippine ship "deliberately rammed into the Chinese ship 5205 in an unprofessional and dangerous manner, causing a collision for which the Philippines bears full responsibility," Liu said.
Sabina Shoal has in recent days become the latest flashpoint between the Philippines, a close U.S. ally, and China in the South China Sea, raising concerns about conflict between the neighbors.
The U.S. has spoken in support of Manila, with Ambassador MaryKay Carlson saying in a statement that Washington "condemns the multiple dangerous violations of international law" by China, including Saturday's incident.
"We stand with the Philippines in upholding international law," she added.
Less than a week ago, Philippine officials said another ship - the BRP Datu Sanday - "encountered aggressive and dangerous maneuvers from eight Chinese maritime forces" while attempting to deliver diesel, food and medical supplies to Filipino fishermen operating near the shoal.
China has repeatedly accused the Philippines of "illegally grounding" the BRP Teresa Magbanua in order to "forcibly occupy" the shoal. China on Friday released an ecological report to back its claim to the feature that officials said is a Chinese island.
Jason Gutierrez in Manila contributed to this story. Edited by RFA staff.

Copyright  1998-2024, RFA. Used with the permission of Radio Free Asia, 2025 M St. NW, Suite 300, Washington DC 20036. For any commercial use of RFA content please send an email to: mahajanr@rfa.org. RFA content August not be used in a manner which would give the appearance of any endorsement of any product or support of any issue or political position. Please read the full text of our Terms of Use.


