Arms Supply and Peace Formula Implementation: Ukrainian Delegation Met with National Security Advisers of the United States, the United Kingdom, Germany and France in Washington
President of Ukraine
_
20240901
https://www.globalsecurity.org/wmd/library/news/ukraine/2024/08/ukraine-240831-ukraine-president05.htm
President of Ukraine
31 August 2024 - 13:21
During a visit to the United States as part of a Ukrainian delegation headed by First Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of Economy of Ukraine Yuliia Svyrydenko, Head of the Office of the President Andriy Yermak met with National Security Advisers of the United States, the United Kingdom, Germany, and France.
The Ukrainian side was also represented by Minister of Defense Rustem Umerov, Ambassador of Ukraine to the United States Oksana Markarova, Deputy Head of the Presidential Office Mykola Tochytskyi and Adviser to the Head of the Presidential Office Dariia Zarivna.  The U.S. delegation was headed by National Security Adviser to the President of the United States Jake Sullivan, the UK delegation - by National Security Adviser Timothy Barrow, the German delegation - by Foreign Policy and Security Adviser to the Federal Chancellor Jens Plötner, and the French delegation - by Diplomatic Adviser to the President Emmanuel Bonne.
The parties discussed the necessary efforts to further strengthen Ukraine's air defense and energy system protection.
The Head of the Office of the President emphasized that it is crucial for Ukraine to receive the necessary weapons and equipment as soon as possible.
"Our coordination and joint efforts are particularly important. We have already come a long way together and achieved a lot. But now is a special moment when we need to maximize our efforts to help Ukraine prevail. It is important to use this moment correctly," Andriy Yermak stressed.
The Head of the Presidential Office noted that the Advisers had traveled a long way for the meeting and thanked them for the joint work.  Minister of Defense Rustem Umerov described the situation on the battlefield and the needs of the Ukrainian Defense Forces.
The meeting also focused on expanding opportunities for joint arms production and allied investment in Ukraine's defense industry.  The parties also discussed in detail the preparation and procedure for further implementation of the Ukraine Compact, adopted by Ukraine's partners at the 75th NATO Summit in Washington.
In addition, the parties agreed on an action plan for the implementation of the already signed security documents.  Special attention was paid to the Peace Formula implementation. The Head of the Presidential Office spoke about the thematic conferences to be held in the near future.


