Iraqi resistance strikes Israeli target in Haifa Port with explosive-laden drones
Iran Press TV
_
20240905
https://www.globalsecurity.org/military/library/news/2024/09/mil-240904-presstv07.htm

Iran Press TV
Wednesday, 04 September 2024 6:06 AM
Fighters from the Iraqi anti-terror resistance groups have launched a drone strike against a strategic target in the northern part of the 1948 Israeli-occupied territories in response to the Tel Aviv regime's devastating war on Gaza.
The Islamic Resistance in Iraq, an umbrella group of anti-terror fighters, in a statement published on its Telegram channel on Wednesday morning, claimed responsibility for the attack on the Port of Haifa, stressing that the strike was carried out with a squadron of kamikaze drones.
It said the drone strike was carried out in continuation of the struggle against the occupying Israeli regime, in support of Palestinians in Gaza, and in retaliation for the massacres that the usurping Zionist entity is perpetrating against women, children, and elderly people in the besieged territory.
The group noted that it will continue to target and destroy important installations across the occupied lands.
This comes after the Islamic Resistance in Iraq claimed responsibility for a drone strike against a "vital target" in the same port on Sunday.
The coalition announced in a statement at the time that the strike had come "in support of our people in Gaza, and in response to the massacres committed by the usurping entity against Palestinian civilians, including children, women, and the elderly."
The Islamic Resistance in Iraq has been launching attacks on Israeli targets ever since the occupying regime started the genocidal war on Gaza in early October.
It has been also hitting American military bases in Iraq and neighboring Syria in retaliation for Washington's support for the Israeli genocide in Gaza.
Israel has been waging an atrocious onslaught against the Gaza Strip, targeting hospitals, residences, and houses of worship after Palestinian resistance movements launched a surprise attack, dubbed Operation al-Aqsa Storm, on October 7 last year.
At least 40,819 Palestinians have been killed, most of them women and children, and another 94,291 individuals have sustained injuries in Gaza so far. More than 1.7 million people have been internally displaced during the war as well.



