Parliamentary Assembly President reacts to recent missile strikes in Ukraine, again urges a tribunal to try aggression by Russian leaders
Council of Europe
_
20240905
https://www.globalsecurity.org/wmd/library/news/ukraine/2024/09/ukraine-240904-coe01.htm
Council of Europe
Parliamentary Assembly  Strasbourg  4 September 2024
In a statement, Parliamentary Assembly President Theodoros Rousopoulos has reacted to recent missile strikes in Ukraine, and again urged the speedy creation of a special tribunal to try Russia's political and military leadership for the crime of aggression.
"In recent days and nights, indiscriminate Russian attacks on   manifestly civilian targets in Ukraine have intensified, with horrible   missile strikes on Poltava, Kryvyi Rig, Sumy, Lviv and other cities.   Educational institutions, hospitals, residential buildings and historic   monuments have been targeted and destroyed, and dozens of innocent   people, among whom are many women and children, have been killed. Human   tragedies continue and intensify. These actions are not just appalling   but are clear war crimes that add to an already extremely long list of   atrocities committed by the Russian Federation in and against Ukraine.
I wish to strongly voice my solidarity with the victims, their   friends and families, and with the entire Ukrainian people who   resiliently and bravely continue to fight the aggressor. I will not stop   repeating that we must never accept this war as normality. We must stay   focused and motivated on doing everything within our power to bring   peace to Ukraine. However not just any peace at any cost, but a peace   based on justice and respect for the rule of law. A peace that restores   the territorial integrity and national sovereignty of Ukraine, a peace   that fully addresses the consequences of the Russian aggression. A peace   that delivers justice to all the victims.
Tomorrow, the Ministers of Justice of the Council of Europe member   states will gather in Vilnius in Lithuania to discuss the issue of   accountability for international crimes committed in Ukraine. I strongly   urge them to step up efforts aimed at the creation of a special   tribunal for the crime of aggression, to hold to account the leadership   of the Russian Federation for what has been rightly called the 'crime of   crimes': starting a war, which brings unspeakable suffering and misery   to soldiers and civilians alike.
The Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe has been crystal   clear on this subject. A special tribunal, created by an agreement   between the Council of Europe and Ukraine and supported by an enlarged   partial agreement open to non-member states and other international   organisations, is now the best and most feasible option, in terms of   legal basis and political legitimacy, for trying Russia's political and   military leadership for the crime of aggression. The Assembly invites   and urges the Core Group to maintain the momentum towards the speedy   establishment of such a tribunal, and we do hope that the conference in   Vilnius tomorrow will give a strong impetus to the Committee of   Ministers to move quickly on setting up the necessary legal framework   for this key body.
This is our duty and responsibility. Ukraine needs our support and our help now. We stand with Ukraine!"



