US sending Pentagon rep to China's top security forum this month
_
_
20240905
https://www.globalsecurity.org/wmd/library/news/china/2024/09/china-240904-voa01.htm
By Carla Babb September 04, 2024
The United States is planning to send Michael Chase, the deputy assistant secretary of defense for China, Taiwan and Mongolia, to China's top annual security forum this month, two U.S. defense officials have confirmed to VOA.
One of the officials, who spoke to VOA on condition of anonymity ahead of the forum, called Chase's upcoming attendance "consistent participation from the U.S."
Chase is more senior than the U.S. representative at last year's Xiangshan Forum, but his rank is on par with historical norms for Pentagon representatives who attend the annual meeting. The Pentagon did not send a representative from 2020-2022 due to the pandemic.
"This engagement is meant to be more of the same" to keep the lines of military communication open and ensure that China has a clear understanding of the United States' position on global security issues, the defense official told VOA.
The forum comes on the heels of a face-to-face meeting in Singapore between U.S. Defense Secretary Lloyd Austin and his Chinese counterpart, Admiral Dong Jun, in late May.
Austin spoke with Dong for the first time in April, marking the first dialogue between the two countries' defense chiefs in nearly 17 months. The top U.S. military officer, Chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff Gen. C.Q. Brown, spoke with his Chinese military counterpart in December.
"Of course talks can make a difference. Having those mil-to-mil communications, those senior channels open, actually allows for the avoidance of a miscalculation," Deputy Pentagon Press Secretary Sabrina Singh told reporters earlier this year.
Chinese state media reports say that more than 90 countries and international organizations plan to send delegations to Beijing for the September 12-14 forum.
Reuters was first to report the decision.
Beijing has asserted its desire to control access to the South China Sea and bring democratically ruled Taiwan under its control, by force if necessary. President Joe Biden has said U.S. troops would defend the island from attack.
China's defense ministry has said the Taiwan issue is the "core of China's core interests."
Tensions have risen sharply between China and U.S. ally the Philippines in the South China Sea, with China's coast guard using water cannons to threaten Filipino fishing ships. China has also used collision and ramming tactics, undersea barriers and a military-grade laser to stop Philippine resupply and patrol missions.
Last year, Austin and his Philippine counterpart established the U.S.-Philippines Bilateral Defense Guidelines, which reaffirmed that an armed attack in the Pacific - including anywhere in the South China Sea - on either of their public vessels, aircraft, or armed forces, would invoke mutual defense commitments outlined in the 1951 U.S.-Philippines Mutual Defense Treaty.


