Estonian Defence Minister at EU meeting: Ukraine cannot fight with one hand tied behind its back
Republic of Estonia - Ministry of Defence
_
20240904
https://www.globalsecurity.org/wmd/library/news/ukraine/2024/09/ukraine-240903-estonia-mod01.htm
Republic of Estonia - Ministry of Defence
30. August 2024 - 15:23
At the informal meeting of the European Union Defence Ministers held today in Brussels, member states discussed military support for Ukraine and issues concerning the EU's defence readiness.
"While the Ukrainian success in Kursk is inspiring, we must remind ourselves that they are fighting with one hand tied behind their back. The European Union can do more collectively to support Ukraine militarily—we must provide them with every opportunity to win. They need more weapons and ammunition, as well as permission to use these weapons to strike military targets on enemy territory," said Estonian Defence Minister Hanno Pevkur, who attended the meeting.
In parallel with assisting Ukraine, it is necessary to strengthen Europe's defence readiness. "Only large-scale investments, which will require raising defence budgets to at least 2.5% of GDP, will send a strategic message to Russia about our preparedness. Defence bonds are a quick and effective option to finance both capability development and strengthening the industry. We will continue discussions on this topic with member states," commented Defence Minister Pevkur.
Agreement on the European Peace Facility has stalled in the European Union. The pending package is critically important, as it allows member states to be reimbursed for arms deliveries and to accelerate military aid in the future. "The lagging implementation of the latest European Peace Facility decisions on military aid to Ukraine is embarrassing, and these issues must be resolved immediately. I expect a swift solution from the Hungarian presidency," added Defence Minister Pevkur.
Additionally, the defence ministers discussed the EU Military Assistance Mission in support of Ukraine (EUMAM). "Our goal is to adapt the training as closely as possible to Ukraine's needs. This is an ongoing process that we are focusing on, including how to equip these units. We are ready to consider all options," said Defence Minister Pevkur.



