Jenin under siege as Israel's brutal assault on West Bank continues
Iran Press TV
_
20240901
https://www.globalsecurity.org/military/library/news/2024/08/mil-240831-presstv03.htm

Iran Press TV
Saturday, 31 August 2024 1:58 PM
On the fourth day of Israel's assault on the West Bank, the city of Jenin has been "cut off from the world" as the regime's troops have blocked access to aid for Palestinians and continue their deadly raids on the occupied territory.
According to a report by Al-Jazeera Arabic, Israeli troops were stationed on the outskirts of the Jenin refugee camp on Saturday, blocking access to aid for Palestinians there.
A Jenin resident told AFP that they "are cut off from the world."
"The water is cut off. The electricity is cut off, the sewage system is no longer working. All the infrastructure is destroyed, we no longer have any services that work."
Director of Jenin Government Hospital, Wisam Bakr, also said that he thinks "it's the worst day since the start of the raid" on the occupied territory on Wednesday.
"We hear from time to time clashes and sometimes there is a big bombing."
The regime's forces have killed at least 20 Palestinians, including a person with disabilities and several children, in the northern West Bank since the regime has launched its deadly raid on several cities in the northern West Bank, according to the UN agency for Palestinian refugees (UNRWA).
According to residents of Jenin, Israel's bulldozers rumbled through the streets on the first day of the raid, clearing the way for Israeli soldiers while tearing up the asphalt and piercing underground pipes.
Red Crescent ambulance shot
According to the Palestine Red Crescent Society (PRCS), the regime's military forces fired at one of its ambulances in Jenin on Saturday.
It said the ambulance was hit despite its entry being coordinated ahead of time.
PRCS medics have been repeatedly targeted while on the job in the occupied West Bank, with at least 22 of them being killed since October 7, according to the organization.
Israel has once again come under intense international pressure to halt its deadly raids on the occupied West Bank, with the UN human rights office, (OHCHR) warning that the regime's latest hostilities risked further enflaming an "already explosive situation," in the occupied territory.


