Day 333 of Genocide: Israeli airstrikes kill two dozen Gazans amid failed truce talks
Iran Press TV
_
20240904
https://www.globalsecurity.org/military/library/news/2024/09/mil-240903-presstv06.htm

Iran Press TV
Tuesday, 03 September 2024 10:17 AM
Israel continues to commit more massacres against Palestinians in Gaza, as its genocidal war on the besieged strip enters its 333rd day.
Palestinian media reports said dozens of people were killed and injured in Israeli air and artillery strikes that hit residential buildings, tents sheltering displaced people and streets across Gaza on Tuesday.
Gaza's Civil Defense spokesperson, Mahmoud Basal, said an artillery shelling killed one person and wounded many others in the Zeitoun neighborhood, south of Gaza City.
He added that the bodies of four women from the al-Arja family were also recovered after an Israeli strike on the al-Tannour neighborhood, east of Rafah city.
A Palestinian man was also killed in an Israeli attack near al-Fardows school in Mawasi in Gaza's southern city of Rafah.
Another man and his three-year-old son were also killed in an Israeli strike that targeted a tent sheltering displaced people in Gaza's southern city of Khan Yunis in the early hours of Tuesday.
This comes as the death toll from the Israeli attack on a bread queue in northern Jabalia has risen to eight people. A number of people were also injured in the attack that took place on Monday evening.
Also on Monday evening, a bombing in southern al-Mawasi killed two children, and another raid on al-Karama area in northern Gaza City claimed the lives of at least four people.
Polio outbreak and deepening humanitarian crisis
Israel's relentless assaults on Gaza, including its health care and public health infrastructure, and the complete blockade imposed on the strip have also taken a heavy toll on the under-resourced health system in the territory.
On Monday, the aid group Médecins Sans Frontières (MSF), also known as Doctors Without Borders, stressed that Israel's destruction of Gaza's infrastructure was behind the polio outbreak in Gaza.
According to the Palestinian Ministry of Health, children in central Gaza continue to receive polio vaccines on Tuesday.
The campaign in central Gaza will continue until Wednesday evening, while children in southern and northern Gaza will get their doses starting from Thursday and Monday, respectively.
Some 158,992 children have so far received their doses as part of the campaign that aims to vaccinate 640,000 children under 10.
The campaign began after Israeli agreed to limited pauses in fighting to allow health workers to vaccinate the children against polio, after the first confirmed case in Gaza in 25 years was recorded.
These so-called "humanitarian pauses" are not a ceasefire deal in Gaza that mediators, including Qatar and Egypt, have been trying to secure in the past few weeks.
Netanyahu defies Israeli protesters amid failed truce talks
Anger is rising in Tel Aviv amid the failed Gaza truce talks, with prime minister Benjamin Netanyahu facing mounting domestic and international pressure after the killing of six captives in Israeli attacks.
US President Joe Biden said Netanyahu is not doing enough to secure the release of captives.
Despite international pressure and mass protests in the occupied territories calling for a deal to secure the return of Israeli captives held in Gaza, Netanyahu refuses to withdraw from the Philadelphi Corridor along Gaza's southern border with Egypt, which is a major obstacle to a ceasefire deal being reached.
"This is the oxygen of Hamas," he said on Monday, adding "No one is more committed to freeing the hostages than me ... No one will preach to me on this issue."
The Israeli opposition has as slammed Netanyahu for blocking a truce deal with his insistence on continued Israeli control of the Philadelphi Corridor and central Gaza's Netzarim Corridor.
The opposition blasted Netanyahu's comments that Philadelphi is essential for Israel to achieve its war aims as "baseless political spin", saying that Netanyahu had years to retake the corridor and didn't bother, and only sent the Israel troopers to do so eight months into the current war.
Netanyahu's remarks came as angry protests took place in the occupied territories after Israeli forces recovered the corpses of six captives at the weekend.
Israel launched the war on Gaza on October 7 after the Palestinian resistance movement Hamas waged the surprise Operation Al-Aqsa Storm against the occupying entity in response to the Israeli regime's decades-long campaign of bloodletting and devastation against Palestinians.
The regime's genocidal war on Gaza has so far killed at least 40,786 Palestinians, mostly women and children, and injured 94,224 others. Thousands more are also missing and presumed dead under rubble.


