Russian Strikes Will Be Impossible If It Is Possible for Us to Destroy the Occupier's Launchers Where They Are - Address by the President
President of Ukraine
_
20240904
https://www.globalsecurity.org/wmd/library/news/ukraine/2024/09/ukraine-240903-ukraine-president01.htm
President of Ukraine
3 September 2024 - 21:26
Dear Ukrainians!
First of all, about the tragedy in Poltava. Rescue efforts are still   underway - the rubble is being cleared. All services are involved. As of   now, the number of injured is 271 people. Everyone is being provided   with the necessary assistance. I am grateful to all the rescuers,   doctors, medical nurses and all the Poltava residents who have joined in   to help, donated blood, and who provide support. We know that there are   people under the rubble of the destroyed building. Everything is being   done to save as many lives as possible. According to current information   available, this Russian strike killed 51 people. My condolences to all   the families and friends. Law enforcement agencies and the Ministry of   Defense of Ukraine are investigating all the circumstances of this   tragedy. The Russians carried out this strike with two ballistic   missiles. The air raid alert was sounded. Everything else - every detail   - must be established and verified during the investigation.
Today, I held a meeting of the Staff. We had a substantive discussion   about the use of air defense and about the protection of our cities and   communities. Steps have been identified to improve the effective use of   the systems we already have. We are also working on obtaining   additional defense for Ukraine. We are counting heavily on the Patriot   that Romania is preparing to hand over; I will be grateful for this step   of assistance from Romania. This is something that will truly support   our people, our country, our entire region. And of course, we continue   to work with all partners for stronger decisions in support of our   defense - for long-range decisions that would be able to destroy a   significant part of Russian ballistics even before launch. This is one   of the key issues of this war in general. The issue of our long-range   capabilities and the corresponding permissions from our partners,   long-range shells and missiles that we could use. Russian strikes will   be impossible if it is possible for us to destroy the occupier's   launchers where they are, along with Russian military airfields and   logistics. Providing Ukraine with such permissions and such weapons is   definitely the biggest step towards a real, just end to this war. Russia   simply does not know how to wage war without terror - it is terrorist   strikes and the ability to sow destruction that replace both tactics and   strategy of war for Russian leaders.
Today I spoke with the Prime Minister of Canada. I informed him about   the situation on the battlefield, about the consequences of Russian   terror. We discussed what exactly can strengthen our positions. Air   defense, defense packages, and equipment needs. It is very important   that Justin is ready to convince our partners more actively to provide   Ukraine with more long-range capabilities.
Also today, at the Staff meeting, there were important reports on   drones - various types of drones used by our Armed Forces of Ukraine,   the Security Service of Ukraine, and the Defense Intelligence of   Ukraine. Efficiency of use, priorities... There are experiences that   should be shared. There are also mistakes that should be corrected. Our   Ukrainian drones must be one hundred percent effective, because this   literally means that Ukraine will be one hundred percent effective on   the battlefield. And I thank all our people who gain this positive   experience of using drones for Ukraine, who share this experience among   the military. I thank everyone who produces and supplies drones. And I   thank all those who really accurately destroy the occupier and destroy   the Russian war potential right there on the enemy's territory.
There was also a long report by Commander-in-Chief Syrskyi on the   frontline and the operation in the Kursk region. The Pokrovsk direction -   there is a decision that can strengthen our positions. Active actions   in the Kursk region continue replenishing the exchange fund for our   state.
And one more thing.
Autumn will be extremely important for Ukraine. And our state   institutions must be set up in such a way that Ukraine will achieve all   the results we need - for all of us. To do this, we need to strengthen   some areas in the Government - and personnel decisions have been   prepared. There will also be changes in the Office. I also expect that   certain areas of our foreign and domestic policies will have a slightly   different emphasis. First - we need more interaction between the central   authorities and the communities. Especially now, when we are preparing   for the winter season. Second - Ukraine has already achieved significant   results in defense production. And this should be strengthened at all   levels, in particular, to make it easier to attract partner investment   in our strategic industries. Third - we need to significantly advance   our work with NATO; this requires special interaction. Fourth - the   European Union, real membership negotiations, preparation of the   relevant parts of the future membership agreement. This is very clear   both legal and political work. Personal responsibility for it will be   imposed. And fifth - we need to integrate everything that Ukraine has   achieved in its relations with partners - trust in Ukraine, strength of   the Ukrainian spirit, relations with partners - with the tasks that our   state faces in countering Russian propaganda and protecting Ukrainian   cultural heritage. We need a new level of simultaneous information work,   cultural and diplomatic. And a new level of relations with the global   Ukrainian community. Now is the time to give new strength to Ukraine's   Governmental institutions, and I am grateful to everyone who will help.
Glory to Ukraine!


