Mongolia Must Arrest Putin, Russian Opposition Activist Kara-Murza Says
_
_
20240903
https://www.globalsecurity.org/wmd/library/news/russia/2024/09/russia-240902-rferl01.htm

By Current Time September 02, 2024
Russian opposition political activist Vladimir Kara-Murza, who was released from a Russian prison last month in a major prisoner swap between Russia and the West, says Mongolian authorities "must arrest" President Vladimir Putin during his visit to the East Asian country.
Putin is wanted by the International Criminal Court (ICC), which Mongolia joined in 2003, for the unlawful deportation and unlawful transfer of children from occupied areas of Ukraine to Russia.
Putin arrived in the Mongolian capital, Ulan Bator, on the evening of September 2 ahead of a planned visit that will include an appearance on September 3 at ceremonies marking Soviet and Mongol battle victories in World War II.
"In terms of the International Criminal Court, in terms of the Rome Statute, in terms of international law, Vladimir Putin should be arrested," Kara-Murza told Current Time on September 1.
"If Mongolia considers itself a country with the rule of law that aspires to be part of the civilized world," Kara-Murza said, "then Mongolia must comply" with the terms of the Rome Statute that established the ICC.
He added that he and other Russian opposition politicians and activists signed an online petition calling on the Mongolian authorities to arrest Putin.
"From the point of view of international law, it's not a matter of choice or willingness -- it's a matter of a legal obligation that most definitely requires compliance," Kara-Murza said.
On September 2, Human Rights Watch (HRW) issued a statement urging Mongolia to either deny entry to or arrest Putin.
"Mongolia would be defying its international obligations as an ICC member if it allows [Putin] to visit without arresting him," said Maria Elena Vignoli, senior international justice counsel at HRW.
The Kremlin said on August 30 that it had "no worries" about the trip, adding that Russia had "a wonderful dialogue with our friends from Mongolia."
Putin plans to take part in events in Mongolia devoted to the 85th anniversary of joint Soviet and Mongol armed forces' victory over Japanese troops in the Battles of Khalkhin Gol.
Putin's visit to Mongolia will be his first visit to a country that signed and ratified the ICC's Rome Statute since an ICC warrant was issued for him in March 2023.
In December 2023, Judge Erdenebalsuren Damdin of Mongolia was elected as an ICC judge.
On August 30, Ukraine also urged Mongolia to arrest Putin.
Russia does not recognize the jurisdiction of the ICC.
Under the Rome Statute, each of the 124 ICC member states would be expected to enforce the arrest warrant should Putin visit their territories.
However, the ICC does not have tools to secure the implementation of the treaty and relies on the cooperation of its member states to conduct any arrest warrants.

Source: https://www.rferl.org/a/putin-mongolia-icc-kara-murza- arrest/33102909.html
Copyright (c) 2024. RFE/RL, Inc. Reprinted with the permission of Radio Free Europe/Radio Liberty, 1201 Connecticut Ave., N.W. Washington DC 20036.


