Russian military ensures safe rotation of 22nd IAEA team at Zaporozhye Nuclear Power Plant
_
_
20240905
https://www.globalsecurity.org/wmd/library/news/ukraine/2024/09/ukraine-240904-russia-mod01.htm
04.09.2024
On 4 September 2024, the Armed Forces of the Russian Federation ensured a safe rotation of the 22nd IAEA (International Atomic Energy Agency) team at the Zaporozhye Nuclear Power Plant (NPP). The rotation was organised by IAEA Director General Rafael Grossi.
To this end, a ceasefire regime, strictly observed by Russian servicemen, was declared from 05:30 to 08:00 along the route of movement from the crossing point designated by the observers - the destroyed bridge near the Kamenskoye. While inspecting the road in the area of the crossing, Russian servicemen located unexploded foreign-made ammunition left in the immediate vicinity of the ZNPP as a result of renewed regular shelling from the Ukrainian side.
Four inspectors have arrived to observe and assess the safety of Zaporozhye NPP. During the rotation, IAEA Director R. Grossi visited cooling tower No. 1, which the Ukrainian Armed Forces attacked by drones on 11 August. The Russian side's analysis of the scene showed that the UAVs were equipped with an incendiary substance that caused the fire. Rafael Grossi and IAEA experts confirmed that a fire source at the base of the cooling tower was unlikely.
The IAEA experts have been present at the Zaporozhye NPP since 1 September 2022, following the first visit of Director General Rafael Grossi to the Plant.
For Reference:
At the moment, all units of Zaporozhye NPP are shut down and are in the state of 'cold shutdown'. The equipment is maintained in accordance with all necessary regulations under strict control of radiation safety standards.
Radiation background at the plant and the adjacent territory is unchanged and is at the level corresponding to normal operation of the power units and does not exceed natural background values.
Department for Media Affairs and Information


