Trump blames 'Comrade Kamala Harris and Crooked Joe Biden' for hostage deaths
JERUSALEM POST STAFF
SEPTEMBER 2, 2024 00:26
20240902
https://www.jpost.com/breaking-news/article-817309
Former US President Donald Trump placed the blame for the murder of six hostages on Hamas, as well as President Joe Biden and VP Kamala Harris, in a post on his social media platform Truth Social on Sunday night.Among the six hostages was American citizen Hersh Goldberg-Polin.Trump said he grieved the "senseless death" of the six, "horrifically including a wonderful American Citizen, Hersh Goldberg-Polin, murdered by Hamas."  However, he also attributed the killing to a "complete lack of American Strength and Leadership," saying that it happened because of the failings of "Comrade Kamala Harris and Crooked Joe Biden." "They have blood on their hands!"Hersh Goldberg-Polin, Eden Yerushalmi, Carmel Gat, Almog Sarusi, Alexander Lobanov, and Ori Danino. (credit: Hostages and Missing Families Forum/Screenshot via X)The failings of the Biden administrationAccording to Trump, the Biden administration allowed terrorists to take American lives and was "directly responsible for unnecessary deaths." We grieve the senseless death of the Israeli Hostages, horrifically including a wonderful American Citizen, Hersh Goldberg-Polin, murdered by Hamas due to a complete lack of American Strength and Leadership. Make no mistake — This happened because Comrade Kamala Harris and…— Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump) September 1, 2024 "Our Country and our amazing people are not safe under Joe Biden, and will be less safe under Kamala Harris." Trump wrote.Reiterating previous statements, Trump stated that the "terror would have never happened if I were President, and it will stop the day I am back in the Oval Office. America will be Strong Again, and that will make the World Safe and Secure!"
Among the six hostages was American citizen Hersh Goldberg-Polin.Trump said he grieved the "senseless death" of the six, "horrifically including a wonderful American Citizen, Hersh Goldberg-Polin, murdered by Hamas."  However, he also attributed the killing to a "complete lack of American Strength and Leadership," saying that it happened because of the failings of "Comrade Kamala Harris and Crooked Joe Biden." "They have blood on their hands!"Hersh Goldberg-Polin, Eden Yerushalmi, Carmel Gat, Almog Sarusi, Alexander Lobanov, and Ori Danino. (credit: Hostages and Missing Families Forum/Screenshot via X)The failings of the Biden administrationAccording to Trump, the Biden administration allowed terrorists to take American lives and was "directly responsible for unnecessary deaths." We grieve the senseless death of the Israeli Hostages, horrifically including a wonderful American Citizen, Hersh Goldberg-Polin, murdered by Hamas due to a complete lack of American Strength and Leadership. Make no mistake — This happened because Comrade Kamala Harris and…— Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump) September 1, 2024 "Our Country and our amazing people are not safe under Joe Biden, and will be less safe under Kamala Harris." Trump wrote.Reiterating previous statements, Trump stated that the "terror would have never happened if I were President, and it will stop the day I am back in the Oval Office. America will be Strong Again, and that will make the World Safe and Secure!"
Trump said he grieved the "senseless death" of the six, "horrifically including a wonderful American Citizen, Hersh Goldberg-Polin, murdered by Hamas."  However, he also attributed the killing to a "complete lack of American Strength and Leadership," saying that it happened because of the failings of "Comrade Kamala Harris and Crooked Joe Biden." "They have blood on their hands!"Hersh Goldberg-Polin, Eden Yerushalmi, Carmel Gat, Almog Sarusi, Alexander Lobanov, and Ori Danino. (credit: Hostages and Missing Families Forum/Screenshot via X)The failings of the Biden administrationAccording to Trump, the Biden administration allowed terrorists to take American lives and was "directly responsible for unnecessary deaths." We grieve the senseless death of the Israeli Hostages, horrifically including a wonderful American Citizen, Hersh Goldberg-Polin, murdered by Hamas due to a complete lack of American Strength and Leadership. Make no mistake — This happened because Comrade Kamala Harris and…— Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump) September 1, 2024 "Our Country and our amazing people are not safe under Joe Biden, and will be less safe under Kamala Harris." Trump wrote.Reiterating previous statements, Trump stated that the "terror would have never happened if I were President, and it will stop the day I am back in the Oval Office. America will be Strong Again, and that will make the World Safe and Secure!"
However, he also attributed the killing to a "complete lack of American Strength and Leadership," saying that it happened because of the failings of "Comrade Kamala Harris and Crooked Joe Biden." "They have blood on their hands!"Hersh Goldberg-Polin, Eden Yerushalmi, Carmel Gat, Almog Sarusi, Alexander Lobanov, and Ori Danino. (credit: Hostages and Missing Families Forum/Screenshot via X)The failings of the Biden administrationAccording to Trump, the Biden administration allowed terrorists to take American lives and was "directly responsible for unnecessary deaths." We grieve the senseless death of the Israeli Hostages, horrifically including a wonderful American Citizen, Hersh Goldberg-Polin, murdered by Hamas due to a complete lack of American Strength and Leadership. Make no mistake — This happened because Comrade Kamala Harris and…— Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump) September 1, 2024 "Our Country and our amazing people are not safe under Joe Biden, and will be less safe under Kamala Harris." Trump wrote.Reiterating previous statements, Trump stated that the "terror would have never happened if I were President, and it will stop the day I am back in the Oval Office. America will be Strong Again, and that will make the World Safe and Secure!"
"They have blood on their hands!"Hersh Goldberg-Polin, Eden Yerushalmi, Carmel Gat, Almog Sarusi, Alexander Lobanov, and Ori Danino. (credit: Hostages and Missing Families Forum/Screenshot via X)The failings of the Biden administrationAccording to Trump, the Biden administration allowed terrorists to take American lives and was "directly responsible for unnecessary deaths." We grieve the senseless death of the Israeli Hostages, horrifically including a wonderful American Citizen, Hersh Goldberg-Polin, murdered by Hamas due to a complete lack of American Strength and Leadership. Make no mistake — This happened because Comrade Kamala Harris and…— Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump) September 1, 2024 "Our Country and our amazing people are not safe under Joe Biden, and will be less safe under Kamala Harris." Trump wrote.Reiterating previous statements, Trump stated that the "terror would have never happened if I were President, and it will stop the day I am back in the Oval Office. America will be Strong Again, and that will make the World Safe and Secure!"
According to Trump, the Biden administration allowed terrorists to take American lives and was "directly responsible for unnecessary deaths." We grieve the senseless death of the Israeli Hostages, horrifically including a wonderful American Citizen, Hersh Goldberg-Polin, murdered by Hamas due to a complete lack of American Strength and Leadership. Make no mistake — This happened because Comrade Kamala Harris and…— Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump) September 1, 2024 "Our Country and our amazing people are not safe under Joe Biden, and will be less safe under Kamala Harris." Trump wrote.Reiterating previous statements, Trump stated that the "terror would have never happened if I were President, and it will stop the day I am back in the Oval Office. America will be Strong Again, and that will make the World Safe and Secure!"
We grieve the senseless death of the Israeli Hostages, horrifically including a wonderful American Citizen, Hersh Goldberg-Polin, murdered by Hamas due to a complete lack of American Strength and Leadership. Make no mistake — This happened because Comrade Kamala Harris and…— Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump) September 1, 2024
We grieve the senseless death of the Israeli Hostages, horrifically including a wonderful American Citizen, Hersh Goldberg-Polin, murdered by Hamas due to a complete lack of American Strength and Leadership. Make no mistake — This happened because Comrade Kamala Harris and…
"Our Country and our amazing people are not safe under Joe Biden, and will be less safe under Kamala Harris." Trump wrote.Reiterating previous statements, Trump stated that the "terror would have never happened if I were President, and it will stop the day I am back in the Oval Office. America will be Strong Again, and that will make the World Safe and Secure!"
Reiterating previous statements, Trump stated that the "terror would have never happened if I were President, and it will stop the day I am back in the Oval Office. America will be Strong Again, and that will make the World Safe and Secure!"

