China vessel damages BRP Magbanua; PH 'seriously concerned'
Philippine News Agency
_
20240901
https://www.globalsecurity.org/military/library/news/2024/08/mil-240831-pna01.htm
Philippine News Agency
By Joyce Ann L. Rocamora and Ruth Abbey Gita-Carlos  August 31, 2024, 5:28 pm Updated on August 31, 2024, 5:52 pm
MANILA -- The Philippines expressed its "serious   concern" over the latest ramming incident in Escoda Shoal, National   Maritime Council (NMC) spokesperson Vice Adm. Alexander Lopez said on   Saturday afternoon.
This was after China Coast Guard (CCG) vessel   5205 on Saturday repeatedly rammed into BRP-Teresa Magbanua, the biggest   ship of the Philippine Coast Guard (PCG) deployed in April to Escoda   Shoal, which is about 75 nautical miles from Palawan.
"Well, the   position of the government, especially the National Maritime Council, we   take this with serious concern," Lopez said in a press briefing   following the latest collision between a CCG vessel and a PCG vessel.
The BRP Teresa Magbanua sustained damage in its bridge wing and freeboard. No injuries to the crew were reported.
As of this posting, the Filipino ship remained anchored inside the Sabina Shoal.
Lopez said a report will be submitted to the Department of Foreign Affairs (DFA) for appropriate action.
"This   is part of the reports that we will be submitting to the Department of   Foreign Affairs, and then the DFA will come up with its own study to   come up with the most appropriate actions," he said.
What happened
PCG   spokesperson for the West Philippine Sea Commodore Jay Tarriela said   the vessel lifted its anchor 8 a.m. with the intention of "loitering   around Escoda Shoal."
When it was already on the move at 12:07   p.m., CCG vessel 5205 carried out the "dangerous maneuver resulting to   its direct ramming" into the port bow of BRP Teresa Magbanua.
The Chinese ship turned around, then rammed the PCG vessel anew, hitting the starboard quarter.
"After   this, it went around and then did another ramming to the PCG vessel. On   the port beam of MRRV-9701, the CCG vessel 5205 has once again directly   and intentionally rammed the PCG vessel," Tarriela narrated.
In a   drone shot presented before the press, Tarriela showed that BRP Teresa   Magbanua was originally surrounded by People's Liberation Army Navy   tugboats 175 and 185, CCG vessels 4301 and 3104, and Chinese maritime   militias.
As the Filipino ship heaved up its anchor, CCG vessel 5205 joined the fray.
Illegal presence
Lopez   said China's presence in Escoda Shoal is illegal, considering that it   is "well within our 200-nautical-mile exclusive economic zone."
He   added that the PCG, in accordance with the United Nations Convention on   the Law of the Sea and the 2016 arbitral ruling on the South China Sea,   is merely exercising its sovereign rights and jurisdiction over Escoda   Shoal.
"So, the Chinese Coast Guard vessels are the ones illegally [patrolling]. 'Yung presence nila diyan ang (Their presence there is) illegal. We are there on a legal basis dahil atin 'yun. Hindi tayo puwedeng magpaalam sa sariling bahay natin (because that is ours. We do not ask for permission because that's ours). Let us be very clear about it," he said.
Lopez   earlier said the Philippine government is eyeing to file a case before   an international body against China following the recent "unlawful and   aggressive maneuvers" by CCG ships against PCG vessels in waters   adjacent to Escoda Shoal.
US condemns China's 'intentional ramming'
Meanwhile, the United States condemned the ramming, saying it was a dangerous act and a violation of international law.
"The   US condemns the multiple dangerous violations of international law by   the PRC (People's Republic of China), including today's intentional   ramming of the BRP Teresa Magbanua while it was conducting lawful   operations within the (Philippine) exclusive economic zone," US   Ambassador to the Philippines MaryKay Carlson said in a statement.
"We stand with the Philippines in upholding international law," she added. (PNA)



