The Office of the President Held Briefings for the U.S. Delegation on the Battlefield Situation, Ukraine's Arms Needs and Sanctions Against the Russian Federation
President of Ukraine
_
20240905
https://www.globalsecurity.org/wmd/library/news/ukraine/2024/09/ukraine-240904-ukraine-president02.htm
President of Ukraine
4 September 2024 - 21:45
Head of the Office of the President Andriy Yermak met with the U.S. delegation led by U.S. Principal Deputy National Security Advisor Jon Finer.
The Ukrainian side held briefings for the U.S. delegation on the security situation in the face of Russia's full-scale aggression, the development of Ukraine's Defense Forces capabilities, and the sanctions policy.
Andriy Yermak noted that over the past few days, Russia has launched a series of missile attacks on Ukrainian cities, including Poltava and Lviv, killing dozens of people and injuring hundreds more.
"We want to give you full information. Because you know the position of President Zelensky that the United States is our friend, we are strategic partners, and we want to be completely open, because without trust it is impossible to advance together towards Ukraine's victory. And, of course, we are grateful to the people and the Government of the United States, to President Biden, for the assistance provided," he said.
Commander of the Joint Forces of the Armed Forces of Ukraine and the Khortytsia Operational Strategic Troops Group Andriy Hnatov described the situation on the frontline, particularly in the Pokrovsk direction, and on the operation in the Kursk region.
Acting Commander of the Air Forces of Ukraine Anatolii Kryvonozhko provided information on the use of F-16s, the tactics of Russian shelling, and Ukraine's need for additional air defense systems, anti-aircraft missile systems, missiles, electronic reconnaissance equipment, and more.
Deputy Minister for Strategic Industries Anna Gvozdiar spoke about the capabilities of the Ukrainian defense sector, current and potential cooperation with U.S. companies to improve the defense capabilities of Ukraine's Defense Forces, and the need for spare parts and components.
During the discussion of sanctions, First Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of Economy Yuliia Svyrydenko emphasized the need to strengthen export controls in order to prevent critical Western-made technologies from entering the Russian Federation (including through third countries), and to exert sanctions pressure on Russian metallurgical companies.
Advisor and Presidential Commissioner for Sanctions Policy Vladyslav Vlasiuk drew attention to the correlation between the sanctions imposed and the enemy's macroeconomic indicators. He emphasized the expediency of strengthening sanctions in the financial sector to prevent the aggressor country from conducting cross-border transactions. In addition, according to the Advisor and Commissioner, it is necessary to take measures to further restrict Russian oil exports and the work of Rosatom.



