UK and Kuwait agree new partnership to provide vital aid in Gaza and Yemen
_
_
20240905
https://www.globalsecurity.org/military/library/news/2024/09/mil-240904-ukfcdo02.htm
Joint funding announced between the UK and Kuwait to help UNICEF deliver lifesaving aid to almost 2.5 million people in Gaza and Yemen.
4 September 2024
The UK and Kuwait have today (Wednesday 4 September) announced new   joint funding plans to help UNICEF deliver lifesaving aid to almost 2.5   million people in Gaza and Yemen.
The funding will go towards UNICEF's efforts to restore water supply   and sanitation systems in Gaza, and to sustain primary healthcare   services in Yemen, and has been set out in two Memoranda of   Understanding (MoUs) signed by both parties.
The UK and Kuwait will provide £4.5 million of joint support ($6   million in total - $3 million to each project), to UNICEF, whose work is   expected to benefit approximately 1,000,000 in Gaza and 1,450,000   people in Yemen.
Minister for the Middle East Hamish Falconer said:
Conflict has aggravated the humanitarian crises in Gaza and Yemen   and the UK is committed to pushing for more lifesaving aid to reach   those in desperate need.
The UK and Kuwait's joint funding towards UNICEF's lifesaving work   in Gaza and Yemen demonstrates our shared commitment to tackle some of   the worst humanitarian crises in the world.
I am proud of the UK and Kuwait's close ties,   which have now endured for more than 125 years and continue to go from   strength to strength.
Kuwait's Deputy Minister of Foreign Affairs His Excellency Sheikh Jarrah Jaber Al-Ahmad Al-Sabah said:
This year marks an important milestone for both the State of Kuwait   and the UK as we jointly commemorate 125 years of partnership. Kuwait   is proud of its deep-rooted and historic ties with the UK and is   committed to deepening this partnership in all its aspects. This week in   London, we were happy to witness the commencement of the Kuwait   cultural week in the UK and the successful convening of the 21st session   of the JSG. The Action Plan signed during the JSG paves the way for   further collaboration in a number of fields.
We are pleased to cooperate with the UK to   support the essential work of UNICEF in both Palestine and Yemen. As   pioneers in the field of international development, both our countries   will continue to explore avenues of cooperation to provide development   and humanitarian assistance to populations affected by conflicts and   natural disasters.
UNICEF's Representative to the Gulf Area Eltayeb Adam said:
UNICEF deeply appreciates the generous contributions from both the   UK and Kuwait, which will have a transformative impact on the lives of   children and families in Gaza and Yemen.
This funding is not just a financial commitment;   it is a beacon of hope for communities struggling with the devastating   consequences of conflict. Together, we can ensure that essential   services such as water, sanitation, and healthcare reach those who need   them most, restoring dignity and a sense of normalcy to countless lives.
The 21st UK-Kuwait Joint Steering Group (JSG) was co-chaired in   London today by the UK Minister for the Middle East, Hamish Falconer,   and Kuwait's Deputy Minister of Foreign Affairs, His Excellency Sheikh   Jarrah Jaber Al-Ahmad Al-Sabah.
In the margins of the JSG, Minister Falconer and the Director General   of the Kuwait Fund for Arab Economic Development Waleed Al-Bahar signed   the two MoUs.
In addition, Minister Falconer and Sheikh Jarrah also reached an   agreement for planned UK support to Kuwait's Civil Service Commission on   the delivery of training programmes to Kuwaiti Government employees,   and signed an action plan detailing how their respective Governments   will drive forward cooperation on a range of key issues such as defence   and security and international development and humanitarian   partnerships, over the coming months.
The UK and Kuwait are celebrating 125 years of official diplomatic   relations throughout 2024. Yesterday (Tuesday 3 September), Minister   Falconer and Sheikh Jarrah attended the headline performance of a   special "Kuwait Culture Week" organised by Kuwait's Embassy in London,   titled "Rhythms of Kuwait".




