UK continues reset with Europe as Minister visits Czech Republic and Slovenia to boost security ties
_
_
20240904
https://www.globalsecurity.org/wmd/library/news/uk/2024/uk-240903-ukfcdo01.htm
During a visit to the region, including Czech Republic and Slovenia, Minister Doughty attended the GLOBSEC forum in Prague and the Bled Strategic Forum in Slovenia.
3 September 2024
Security challenges facing Europe were at the top of the agenda   during the first visit by Minister for Europe Stephen Doughty to Central   Europe, concluding today (3 September).
During a dual-leg visit to the region including stints in both the   Czech Republic and Slovenia, the minister attended the GLOBSEC forum in   Prague followed by the Bled Strategic Forum at Lake Bled in Slovenia.
European security was front and centre of those conversations, as   threats including disinformation, cyber-attacks, organised immigration   crime and Putin's illegal war in Ukraine continue to transpire across   the continent.
The visit comes as the UK continues work to reset the country's   relationship with Europe, an ambition grounded in a new spirit of   co-operation intended to strengthen ties, tackle barriers to trade and   collaborate in the face of shared global challenges from climate change   to illegal migration.
That reset was emphasised by the Prime Minister during a visit to   Germany and France last week, and by the Foreign Secretary during his   travels to Germany, Poland and Sweden in recent weeks. It has also been   the focus of discussions by the European Union Relations Minister Nick   Thomas-Symonds in Brussels.
Minister Doughty spoke at the GLOBSEC Forum, the premier Central and   Eastern European security forum held in Prague this year, alongside   counterparts from the Czech Republic, Lithuania and Moldova.
At a panel event on countering Russian hybrid threats, the minister   emphasised work being done by the UK and partners to degrade Russia's   network of spies and take action against Putin's destabilising activity.   This includes the largest and most severe package of sanctions ever   imposed on Russia, and joint efforts in countering Russian   disinformation intended to negatively influence elections across Europe.
The minister then travelled to Slovenia for the Bled Strategic Forum,   where he made clear that the UK will continue to support Slovenia in   tackling the shared challenges of illegal migration and criminal gangs.   The UK and Slovenia's continued co-operation in this field follows   discussions at this year's European Political Community Summit in July,   where the Prime Minister met Slovenian Prime Minister Robert Golob, releasing a joint statement committing to further cooperation on tackling organised immigration crime.
He also focused attention on promoting stability in the Western   Balkans, amid increasing tensions and attempted interference from malign   actors in the region.
Speaking at a panel event at the Bled Strategic Forum, Minister Doughty said:
As a new government to the UK, we are absolutely clear we are   committed to multilateral systems, we're committed to the rule of law,   we're committed to NATO.
We're committed to Ukraine; we're committed to standing up to   Russia; to Iran ... and we're committed to working with our allies whether   that's in the EU, whether that's outside the EU in Europe; whether   that's across the transatlantic relationship or whether that's around   the World.
Not only on those security challenges, but also   on climate change, on growth and prosperity for people, on tackling   poverty, on equal rights, on gender equality.
During the visit, the minister also met Czech and Slovenian   counterparts - Czech Deputy Foreign Minister Jan Marian, and Foreign   Minister Jan Lipavsky, as well as Slovenian Foreign Minister Marko   Stucin - to emphasise plans to pursue a positive, forward-looking   relationship with allies across the region as part of the wider   UK-Europe reset.
The visit also builds upon progress made at Blenheim Palace during the European Political Community in July,   where European nations underscored the strength of international   support for Ukraine, and joint commitment to regional security.



