Australia-Japan 2+2 Foreign and Defence Ministers' Meeting
_
_
20240904
https://www.globalsecurity.org/wmd/library/news/australia/2024/australia-240904-audod01.htm
The Hon Richard Marles MP  Deputy Prime Minister  Minister for Defence
4 September 2024
Deputy   Prime Minister and Minister for Defence, the Hon Richard Marles MP, and   Minister for Foreign Affairs, Senator the Hon Penny Wong, will host   their Japanese counterparts for the 11th Australia-Japan 2+2 Foreign and Defence Ministerial Consultation in Victoria on 5 September 2024.
The   meeting with Japan's Minister for Foreign Affairs, Kamikawa Yoko, and   Minister of Defense, Kihara Minoru, will advance our bilateral   cooperation and defence and security priorities.
The   Deputy Prime Minister will host Minister Kihara for a Defence Ministers'   Meeting in the Geelong region today. The Foreign Minister will also   host Foreign Minister Kamikawa for a bilateral Foreign Ministers'   Meeting tomorrow.
Australia and Japan have never been closer, and this visit is an opportunity to deepen our Special Strategic Partnership, underpinned by mutual trust, complementary economies, and a close affinity between our people.
We are working together to support an Indo-Pacific region that is peaceful, stable and prosperous.
Quotes attributable to the Deputy Prime Minister, the Hon Richard Marles MP:
"I   am honoured to welcome Minister Kihara to my hometown of Geelong. I   look forward to discussing our shared ambition to strengthen our defence   partnership, building on our 2022 Joint Declaration on Security   Cooperation.
"Our defence cooperation with Japan is a   pillar of regional stability. Our strong strategic alignment   supports collective deterrence and stability in the Indo‑Pacific."
Quotes attributable to Foreign Affairs Minister, Senator the Hon Penny Wong:
"Japan   is an essential partner for Australia, and our two nations work closely   together, including through ASEAN, the Pacific Islands Forum and the   Quad, to make a vital contribution to the region's security and   prosperity.
"I am pleased to have travelled to Japan three times in the past 12 months, a sign of our close and regular engagement."


