Britain defends Israeli weapons export ban as Europe mulls sanctions
_
_
20240905
https://www.globalsecurity.org/wmd/library/news/israel/2024/09/israel-240904-voa01.htm
By Henry Ridgwell September 04, 2024
British Prime Minister Keir Starmer defended his government's decision to suspend some arms shipments to Israel Wednesday, saying the move was necessary to comply with international law.
"We absolutely recognize and support Israel's right to self-defense and have taken action in support of that right of self-defense. ... But in relation to licenses, this isn't an Israel issue. It's the framework for all licenses that have to be kept under review," he said.
"We either comply with international law or we don't. We only have strength in our arguments because we comply with international law," Starmer told lawmakers in Parliament.
Israel has strongly criticized the move and said it would only serve to strengthen Hamas militants in the Gaza Strip. Israel invaded the Palestinian territory after Hamas militants killed more than 1,200 people and took 253 hostages in a cross-border terror attack on October 7.
Britain on Monday suspended around 30 of the 350 licenses for weapons exports to Israel after a legal review. Foreign Secretary David Lammy made the announcement in parliament on Monday.
"The assessment I have received leaves me unable to conclude anything other than that for certain U.K. arms exports to Israel, there does exist a clear risk that they might be used to commit or facilitate a serious violation of international humanitarian law," Lammy told lawmakers, adding that the export bans include "equipment that we assess is for use in the current conflict in Gaza, such as important components which go into military aircraft, including fighter aircraft, helicopters and drones, as well as items which facilitate ground targeting."
The British move will have little impact on the Israel Defense Forces' operations, said Middle East analyst Yossi Mekelberg of the London-based policy institute Chatham House. "Most of Israel's weapons and ammunition come actually from the United States and Germany. It amounts to nearly 99% of the arms supplied to Israel."
But the symbolism of Britain's move is significant, Mekelberg said.
"Suspension sends a clear message that you can be a friend of Israel, you can support Israel — including Labour [the ruling party] — supportive of Israel, especially after October 7, and rightly so. But at the same time to disagree fundamentally with the way Israel conducts the war and how it uses weapons," he said.
"I think we can start seeing a change [in Britain's approach], and I think what some of us wonder is if it will go as far as recognizing a Palestinian statehood. This probably would be the biggest step forward," Mekelberg said.
Andreas Krieg, a fellow of the Institute of Middle Eastern Studies at Kings College London, said the political impact of the export ban would outweigh the practical implications.
"The U.K. might not be the strongest hard power in the Middle East, but it has significant soft power and influence. It shows that for the very first time that a very close partner and ally of Israel doesn't trust the Israeli government, when they're saying that they are complying with the laws of armed conflict," Krieg told VOA.
"The fact that the U.K. is now saying that there are potential doubts is casting bigger doubts over Israel's campaign and the complicity of other countries as well, including Germany and the United States, in aiding and supporting Israel's campaign, particularly in Gaza, but also potentially in the West Bank," he said.
"Other European countries might want to now revisit their arms export licenses and to what extent their weapons are being used in what could be seen as an illegal war, a partially illegal war in Gaza," Krieg said.
Washington paused the export of large 1-ton bombs to Israel in May over concerns that they could be used in a ground invasion of the city of Rafah but has continued to supply billions of dollars' worth of other weapons.
Germany, which supplies about 39% of Israel's arms imports, has not said it plans to suspend any arms shipments.
Israel strongly denies breaking international law in Gaza and claims it targets only Hamas militants, whom it accuses of hiding in schools, hospitals and mosques and using human shields.
Critics accuse the Israel Defense Forces of conducting indiscriminate attacks against the civilian population and targeting basic infrastructure. The Hamas-run Health Ministry in Gaza says more than 41,000 Palestinians have been killed since the Israeli operation began, most of them women and children. Most of Gaza's 2.3 million people have been forced to flee their homes.
The Israeli military says the death toll includes several thousand Hamas combatants. The U.S., the U.K. and other Western countries designate Hamas as a terror group.
Writing on the social media platform X, Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu strongly criticized Britain's move to ban some arms exports.
"Days after Hamas executed six Israeli hostages, the UK government suspended thirty arms licenses to Israel. This shameful decision will not change Israel's determination to defeat Hamas, a genocidal terrorist organization that savagely murdered 1,200 people on October 7, including 14 British citizens."
"Hamas is still holding over 100 hostages, including 5 British citizens. Instead of standing with Israel, a fellow democracy defending itself against barbarism, Britain's misguided decision will only embolden Hamas. Israel is pursuing a just war with just means, taking unprecedented measures to keep civilians out of harm's way and comporting fully with international law," Netanyahu wrote on Tuesday.
In recent days, tens of thousands of Israelis have taken to the streets of Tel Aviv to protest Netanyahu's handling of the war in Gaza and the failure to secure the release of the remaining hostages.
"I think there's a growing divide between the Israeli public and Israeli national interest, and the Netanyahu government. So, siding or moving against the Netanyahu government is now seen less and less so as moving against Israel as a whole, or the Israeli public," said analyst Andreas Krieg.
Meanwhile the European Union's foreign policy chief Josep Borrell last week proposed sanctioning two unnamed Israeli government ministers, accusing them of having a "colonial agenda" in the occupied West Bank. Israel is conducting an ongoing raid against militants in the territory, focused on refugee camps in Jenin and Tulkarem. Israeli settlers are accused of forcibly seizing Palestinian land in the West Bank with the support of the IDF, which Israel denies.
"We are ... witnessing a formal radicalization on the part of some members of the Israeli far-right for whom Gaza has always been a minor issue compared with the West Bank and Jerusalem. Maybe, they don't care about the settlements in Gaza, since any return to calm would make it more difficult to pursue the colonial agenda they have for the West Bank, the expansion of the colonies," Borrell told reporters in Brussels on August 29.
Any decision on sanctioning Israeli ministers would require unanimity among EU member states. Borrell said that threshold had not been met.


