Statement on the second anniversary of the UN assessment on human rights situation in Xinjiang
Global Affairs Canada
_
20240901
https://www.globalsecurity.org/wmd/library/news/china/2024/08/china-240831-canada01.htm
Global Affairs Canada
August 31, 2024- Ottawa, Ontario - Global Affairs Canada
Today, Global Affairs Canada issued the following statement:
"Two years have passed since the UN Office of the High Commissioner   for Human Rights released a landmark assessment, detailing grave human   rights violations in the Xinjiang Uyghur Autonomous Region of China. The   assessment describes serious human rights violations that have been   committed in Xinjiang, and notes that the extent of arbitrary and   discriminatory detention of Uyghurs and other Muslim ethnic minorities   may constitute international crimes, in particular crimes against   humanity.
"After the assessment was released, Canada called on the Chinese   government to uphold its international human rights obligations and   respond to the grave concerns and assessment recommendations.
"Two years later, China has not taken meaningful steps to address   these concerns despite ongoing calls from Canada, other governments, UN   experts, human rights organizations, victims' groups and the global   Uyghur diaspora.     "Reports continue to point to systemic human   rights violations by Chinese authorities. Uyghurs are forced into labour   in Xinjiang and elsewhere in China. Religious practice, particularly   Islam, is limited, with mosques being the first to be massively   targeted.    "UN experts have also expressed concerns that   children are being forced into state-run residential schools in Xinjiang   and other parts of China. Instead of addressing these concerns with   transparency, China denied the findings and blocked discussion at the UN   Human Rights Council.
"Canada's Minister of Foreign Affairs Mélanie Joly has raised   Canada's concerns with Wang Yi, China's Director of the Office of the   Central Commission for Foreign Affairs and Minister of Foreign Affairs,   and Canada's Ambassador to the People's Republic of China Jennifer May   also raised them with local officials during her recent visit to   Xinjiang.
"Canada calls on China to address the concerns raised in the UN   assessment and to implement its recommendations without delay. This   includes allowing UN independent experts access to Xinjiang and to other   regions of China to assess conditions.
"Canada will continue to work with its international partners to   address the situation in Xinjiang and to ensure the Chinese government   is held accountable for its actions."



