Taiwan's chips industry 'key reason' for world to protect island: Lai
_
_
20240903
https://www.globalsecurity.org/wmd/library/news/taiwan/2024/taiwan-240902-rfa01.htm

Taiwanese President warned of China's desire to change the 'rule-based world order' by invading Taiwan.
By Taejun Kang for RFA 2024.09.02 -- Taiwan's President Lai Ching-te said the island can take advantage of its semiconductor industry not only to promote the development of the economy but also as a key reason for the world to protect the island.
Commenting on a rumor circulating in the U.S. that Taiwan's semiconductor industry could be the very reason for China to decide to attack Taiwan, Lai said he would try his best to protect the island's security.
"Since TSMC's operating system is very complex, not any group of people could just take it and continue to operate it," he said during a televised interview on Sunday.
TSMC, or Taiwan Semiconductor Manufacturing Company, is a Taiwanese multinational semiconductor contract manufacturing and design company.
In the first quarter of 2024, TSMC recorded a market share of 61.7% in the global semiconductor foundry market, while its closest competitor, South Korea's Samsung, occupied 11%.
Since controlling semiconductor production and distribution can reshape global economics and trade as well as establish a new technological order, Taiwan's semiconductor industry has become crucial in the strategic competition between the U.S. and China.
Lai said the purpose of any Chinese invasion of Taiwan would not be about acquiring more territory, but rather about the desire to change the "rules-based world order" in order to achieve hegemony.
Counting on the international community's support for Taiwan, the Taiwanese President said the Taiwan Strait issue was "not only a Taiwan-China issue, but also an Indo-Pacific issue, and even a world issue".
This echoes remarks made last month when Lai urged the world's democratic countries to come together and act to prevent China from expanding authoritarianism.
"China has even weaponized trade. Using various pressures and threats, it's politically manipulating not just Taiwan, but also Japan, Korea, Australia, Lithuania, Canada, and other countries," said Lai last month.
China regards Taiwan as a renegade province that should be reunited with the mainland, by force if necessary. The democratic island has been self-governing since it effectively separated from mainland China in 1949 after the Chinese civil war.
Regarding a rumor about his visit to the U.S., Lai said during the Sunday interview that he had no plans to do so, stressing that there were already "very good" channels of communication between Taiwan and the U.S.
Edited by Mike Firn.
This story has been updated to clarify a translation of Lai's remarks.

Copyright  1998-2024, RFA. Used with the permission of Radio Free Asia, 2025 M St. NW, Suite 300, Washington DC 20036. For any commercial use of RFA content please send an email to: mahajanr@rfa.org. RFA content September not be used in a manner which would give the appearance of any endorsement of any product or support of any issue or political position. Please read the full text of our Terms of Use.


