Xi Jinping Meets with Malian President Colonel Assimi Goïta
Ministry of Foreign Affairs, the People's Republic of China
_
20240903
https://www.globalsecurity.org/wmd/library/news/china/2024/09/china-240902-prc-mofa03.htm

Ministry of Foreign Affairs, the People's Republic of China
Updated: September 02, 2024 15:53
On the morning of September 2, 2024, President Xi Jinping met at the Great Hall of the People in Beijing with Malian President Colonel Assimi Goïta, who is in China for the Beijing Summit of the Forum on China-Africa Cooperation (FOCAC). The two heads of state announced the elevation of the China-Mali relationship to a strategic partnership.
Xi Jinping pointed out that the China-Mali friendship was personally forged by the elder generation of leaders of the two countries. Sixty years ago, the two sides issued a joint communique, which for the first time included China's eight principles in foreign aid, advocating respect for national sovereignty, development of an independent economy and non-interference in internal affairs. These principles not only serve as a guide for the long-term friendly cooperation between China and Mali, but also set the tone for China-Africa cooperation in promoting the establishment of a new international order. Under the current circumstances, China is ready to carry forward traditional friendship with Mali, continue to firmly support each other, and provide support within its capacity for Mali's economic development and improvement of people's livelihood. China will continue to encourage Chinese companies to invest in Mali, and deepen cooperation in agriculture, energy, mineral development, infrastructure construction and other fields. China hopes that Mali will provide security guarantees and policy facilitation for Chinese companies.
Xi Jinping stressed that China has always supported the African people in independently deciding their future and destiny, and is ready to work with Mali and other African countries to support each other and jointly pursue modernization paths suited to their respective national conditions. This FOCAC summit is dedicated to drawing a new blueprint for China-Africa cooperation in the new era, advancing modernization together, and building a high-level China-Africa community with a shared future. China is ready to work with Mali and other parties to make the summit a complete success.
Colonel Assimi Goïta thanked China for hosting this FOCAC summit and for the warm and friendly reception. The people of Mali and China enjoy a brotherly friendship and bilateral cooperation is sincere and pragmatic. He thanked China for providing various and valuable assistance to Mali's economic and social development. Mali hopes to further consolidate the friendship with China, elevate the strategic partnership, and deepen mutually beneficial cooperation in agriculture, energy, mining, security and other areas. There is but one China in the world, and Mali firmly pursues the one-China principle. Both Mali and China respect national sovereignty and independence and oppose interference in other countries' internal affairs. Mali appreciates China's efforts and contributions to promoting regional and world peace and development and looks forward to closer multilateral cooperation with China.
Wang Yi was present at the meeting.


