Comment by Foreign Ministry Spokeswoman Maria Zakharova on Britain's involvement in the planning and implementation of the Kiev regime's terrorist attacks in Russia
_
_
20240905
https://www.globalsecurity.org/wmd/library/news/ukraine/2024/09/ukraine-240904-russia-mfa02.htm
4 September 2024 12:46  1620-04-09-2024
More facts are emerging about London's deep involvement in the planning and implementation of the Kiev regime's terrorist attacks in Russia.
In particular, the examination of the electronic components of the drones which Ukraine used in early August 2024 to attack a fuel depot in the Kamensky District, Rostov Region, has shown that the drones' flight controllers were pre-programmed near the headquarters of Callen-Lenz GB in Salisbury, UK, and in the hangars of Safran Seats GB in the vicinity of Newport, Wales. These two companies provide technological solutions for the aircraft and aerospace industries.
The drones were assembled in the Vyshgorod District, Kiev Region, and launched from a site near Slavyansk in the part of the Donetsk People's Republic that is currently controlled by the Ukrainian army.
We regard these facts as evidence of London's approval of the terrorist methods used by the Kiev regime. Britain's actual financing and involvement in preparing attacks on the civilian infrastructure and innocent civilians in Russia makes London fully responsible, on a par with its Kiev puppets, for the continuing bloodshed.
The concerned Russian agencies take Britain's destructive activity and its relentless striving to escalate the conflict into account. Conclusions are made, and the best response algorithms are considered, but it would not be right to speak openly about the details of this work, for obvious reasons. We would like to remind you, though, about the warning issued by the Foreign Ministry on May 6, 2024, that any UK military facilities and equipment on Ukrainian territory and beyond could be hit as a response to Ukrainian strikes on Russian territory with British weapons.
We call on London, which is sacrificing Ukrainian people and Ukrainian statehood to promote its own geopolitical interests, to immediately stop supporting the inhuman regime and refrain from any other actions that can further escalate the conflict.



