Conversation with Chairman of State Great Khural of Mongolia Dashzegve Amarbayasgalan
_
_
20240904
https://www.globalsecurity.org/wmd/library/news/russia/2024/09/russia-240903-kremlin05.htm
Vladimir Putin had a meeting with Chairman of the State Great Khural of Mongolia Dashzegve Amarbayasgalan.
September 3, 2024  12:30  Ulaanbaatar
Chairman of the State Great Khural of Mongolia Dashzegve Amarbayasgalan (retranslated): Mr President, we are delighted to have the opportunity to meet with you. We deeply appreciate your presence at the ceremony marking the 85th anniversary of the victory in the Battle of Khalkhin Gol.
I would like to wish you and members of your delegation a pleasant stay in our country.
President of Russia Vladimir Putin: Mr Chairman,
I am also very pleased to visit friendly Mongolia.
Together with the Mongolian people we marked a milestone event - an anniversary of our common victory over the aggressors on the river Khalkhin Gol. In those battles we ensured Mongolia's independence and territorial integrity.
We have just noted with Mr President in the course of our talks that Mongolia turned out to be a very loyal and reliable ally of the Soviet Union and Russia during our fight with German Nazis during the Great Patriotic War.
Throughout decades Russia and Mongolia have maintained very close and friendly relations, and today they are effectively developing. Trade is growing. We interact through our parliaments; last year our interparliamentary commission held its first meeting.
We give very much importance to interaction between our government authorities. In today's world and in our countries it is an essential addition to the development of contacts between the executive bodies. Direct interaction between the parliaments creates a very good atmosphere and contributes to the creation of a legal framework for such interaction.
Thank you very much for the warm reception.
Dashzegve Amarbayasgalan: Thank you very much.
This year, we held the ninth parliamentary elections. Formerly consisting of 76 members, the Mongolian Parliament has been expanded to 126 members through constitutional amendments. Representatives of four parties and one union were elected to join the Parliament.
We will certainly pursue a course of regular contacts and cooperation with the supreme legislative body of the Russian Federation, our eternal neighbour.
The Mongolian chapter of the Mongolian-Russian Interparliamentary Group will be co-chaired by two representatives. They are Deputy Chairman of the State Great Khural from the Democratic Party Mr Purevdorj and Deputy Chairman from the People's Party Ms Khurelbaatar Bulgantuya, who is another deputy head of the Mongolian-Russian Interparliamentary Group.
In concordance with your desires, we will focus on having consistent contacts and discussing cooperation between the parliaments and between parliamentary and interparliamentary groups.
We have been informed that your meeting and talks with the President of Mongolia were quite productive and you have reached certain agreements. On behalf of the Parliament, we will focus on measures agreed by the presidents and by our respective ministries.


