It Is Very Important That Absolutely All the Objectives Set for Our Kursk Operation Are Being Realized - Address by the President
President of Ukraine
_
20240905
https://www.globalsecurity.org/wmd/library/news/ukraine/2024/09/ukraine-240904-ukraine-president03.htm
President of Ukraine
4 September 2024 - 19:19
Dear Ukrainians!
By now, rescue operations have been completed in Lviv and Kryvyi Rih,   where people suffered from the Russian missile strikes today. Ordinary   houses and civil infrastructure were damaged. There are many victims.   Everyone has received the necessary assistance. Unfortunately, seven   people were killed in Lviv. My condolences to their families and loved   ones!
It is important that the world sees this terror and reacts to it. To   everything that Russia is doing against our people, against our state. I   am grateful to all political and public figures, I am grateful to every   leader who supports Ukraine and Ukrainians and condemns Russian terror.   And I am also grateful to all journalists of Ukraine, Europe, and the   world - to all those who speak truthfully about what is happening, about   this war, and about the importance of protecting lives.
Today, the Taoiseach of Ireland came on a visit to Ukraine, and he   was not only in Kyiv, but also in Hostomel and Borodyanka. He saw what   the Russian war brought to Ukraine. Today we signed a bilateral security   agreement with Ireland, which is substantial, as it should be. It is   the 26th such agreement. Although Ireland is a militarily neutral state,   we cooperate actively in the political, economic and humanitarian   spheres. And we will work even more actively. We have secured the amount   of Ireland's assistance to Ukraine for this year. We have agreed to   make more joint efforts to ensure that sanctions against Russia for this   war become stronger, and that reconstruction in Ukraine is more active.   I suggested that Ireland should look more closely at the possibility of   patronage for the restoration of one of our regions. And, of course, it   is very valuable that Irish society and the political class know what   is happening in Ukraine and what exactly is needed to end this war as   soon as possible.
Today, there was a report from Commander-in-Chief Syrskyi. As every   day, it was about each part of the front, with special reference to   Pokrovsk, Toretsk, and the Kurakhove direction. Separate mention was   made of the operation in the Kursk region. It is very important that   absolutely all the objectives set for our Kursk operation are being   realized. For this, I thank every soldier, every sergeant and every   officer involved. As of now, this operation continues to be the largest   replenishment of the exchange fund from one direction.
And today we also continued evacuating our people from the Middle   East - from Lebanon. 11 children, 14 adults. They are now safe. And our   diplomats and intelligence will continue helping - all Ukrainians in the   region who need it can contact our diplomatic missions in the Middle   East and get everything they need, all help, all assistance.
And one more thing.
We are preparing important meetings with our partners. Something that   can and should strengthen our positions - not only of Ukraine, but of   all of us in Europe, of all of us in the world who want a real end to   this war and a real joint work on ensuring that security never collapses   again. This week, next week, and all of September must be productive   for all of us. Primarily, this is about air defense, our capabilities on   the front and in reconstruction. We are preparing substantial things.
I thank everyone who stands with Ukraine! I thank all those who fight   and work - really work one hundred percent - to defend our   independence, our people!
Glory to Ukraine!


