FM Araqchi says Iran supports any Gaza ceasefire deal agreed by Palestinians
Iran Press TV
_
20240903
https://www.globalsecurity.org/military/library/news/2024/09/mil-240902-presstv07.htm

Iran Press TV
Monday, 02 September 2024 7:32 AM
Iran's Foreign Minister Abbas Araqchi says the Islamic Republic supports any ceasefire deal agreed by the Palestinians and the resistance movement Hamas.
Abbas Araqchi made the remarks during a phone call with his Bulgarian counterpart Ivan Kondov on Sunday.
During the conversation, Araqchi pointed to the situation in Gaza and the Palestinians' dire need for humanitarian aid, saying, "Iran supports any agreement accepted by Palestinians and Hamas [that aims] to achieve ceasefire and provide a ground for sending humanitarian aid to Gaza," he said.
That comes as a new round of ceasefire talks, mediated by Egypt, Qatar and the US, has recently been resumed.
The Cairo talks come as the humanitarian situation in Gaza is further deteriorating, with malnutrition soaring and polio discovered in the Palestinian territory.
Israel launched the war on Gaza on October 7 after the Palestinian resistance movement Hamas waged the surprise Operation Al-Aqsa Storm against the occupying entity in response to the Israeli regime's decades-long campaign of bloodletting and devastation against Palestinians.
The regime's bloody onslaught on Gaza has so far killed at least 40,738 Palestinians, mostly women and children, and injured 94,154 others. Thousands more are also missing and presumed dead under rubble.
Elsewhere in his remarks, Araqchi expressed Tehran's keenness to enhance cooperation with Sofia, particularly in the economic field.
Kondov also voiced his country's readiness to strengthen bilateral ties with Iran.
In their telephone conversation, the two ministers also discussed consular issues.
Iranian President Masoud Pezeshkian, who emerged victorious in the second round of the presidential vote on July 5, has stressed that the Islamic Republic's principled policy is to foster peace and friendship, prevent tensions and interact with world countries.


