Serbia Air Force - Rafale
_
_
20240902
https://www.globalsecurity.org/military/world/serbia/rafale.htm
Serbia signed a contract 29 August 2024 to purchase 12 Rafale warplanes from France’s Dassault Aviation. The widely anticipated deal will see Serbia receive nine single-seat and three two-seat jets by 2029 for an undisclosed sum, according to Dassault chief executive Eric Trappier. The dozen multi-role fighter aircrafts will help Serbia modernise its air force and replace ageing Soviet-era combat jets. During that tender attempt for the procurement of new fighter planes, from 2011, the expert part of the team preferred Rafale. The same ones that Croatia bought a little earlier, for about the same cost: about three billion dollars.
Serbia has long been close to Russia and China and purchased arms from both countries over the years, while relying on the two countries for diplomatic backing over its dispute with Kosovo. Serbia remains an outlier in Europe after refusing to join sanctions against Russia in the wake of its invasion of Ukraine in 2022. The Balkan country has been reliant for years on support from the Kremlin and Beijing to prevent the United Nations from recognising Kosovo as an independent state.Serbia has been a candidate to join the European Union since 2012, but its prospects are seen as bleak without a normalisation of relations with Kosovo.
Serbia's signing of an agreement to purchase Rafale aircraft from France will not have a negative impact on relations between Belgrade and Moscow. The Russian leadership's reaction to the deal confirmed Russia's respectful attitude toward the Balkan republic, Serbian Deputy Prime Minister Aleksandar Vulin told TASS. "The purchase of Rafale aircraft was carried out for military and practical reasons and will in no way have a negative impact on relations between the Republic of Serbia and the Russian Federation. Serbia remains military neutral and will not join the anti-Russian hysteria or any form of anti-Russian sanctions," Vulin emphasized. "In this case, Russia has shown how dear Serbia is to it, and why it is a country led by people respected all over the world, because Russia has once again expressed respect for Serbia and has not put its interests above Serbia's. If it had been different, if Serbia had bought the MiGs, would NATO and the EU have behaved in the same way? Would they have sent Serbia words of understanding or threats?" the Deputy Prime Minister said. "Russia behaves towards Serbia as an equal partner, and the Serbs are grateful to it for this," Vulin concluded.
In December 2021, Serbian Defense Minister Nebojsa Stefanovic announced that the country's armed forces were planning to purchase fighter jets and were choosing between Russian and French ones . At the time, he noted that Belgrade was leaning more toward the Rafale, but the final decision would only be made after a thorough analysis of the situation, since "we are talking about very expensive things."
In the spring of 2022, Vucic said that Serbia was negotiating with France to buy 12 new fighters, as well as with "another country for another 12 aircraft," but used ones. He did not specify which country he was talking about.
In the summer of 2023, Vucic said that Serbia was discussing with France the price of the fighter jets and the type of missiles that could be used on these aircraft. According to him, Paris would not like to sell its Meteor air-to-air missile to a country that is not a NATO member. Vucic then noted that the purchase of Rafale "would make Serbia a different country and a much greater force."
The President of Serbia, Aleksandar Vucic, visited France in April 2024. Vucic laid a wreath on the memorial plaque "Loyalty for Loyalty", which is dedicated to Serbian soldiers. This is the 20th meeting between the two presidents so far, and the Serbian president said it may be the most important meeting for the country in the last three decades. Serbia expects to sign a "huge" deal for French fighter jets during a visit this week from France's leader, President Aleksandar Vucic told AFP.
The President of France, Emmanuel Macron, hosted a formal reception, on 08 April 2024 for the President of Serbia, Aleksandar Vucic, at the Elysée Palace. Before the meeting, the two presidents addressed the media. Macron said that Serbia has a place in Europe, but also pointed out that "the issue of Kosovo is a promise and a pledge for the future of the region". Vucic thanked the French president for always wanting to listen to the Serbian side.
During the second day of his official visit to Paris, on 09 April 2024 the President of Serbia Aleksandar Vucic had discussions on dedicated industry and defense, as well as on the improvement of economic cooperation with French companies.	The conversation with the Minister of Defense was good and meaningful, President Aleksandar Vucic said. "A good and meaningful conversation with Minister Sébastien Lecornu about the cooperation between our Ministry of Defense and the Ministry of Defense of France, our dedicated industries, various experiences and technologies, as well as the procurement of the most modern weapons and tools for defensive purposes," wrote Vucic on  Instagram.
President of France Emmanuel Macron arrived in Belgrade on 29 August 2024 at the invitation of the President of Serbia, Aleksandar Vucic. The two statesmen said at a joint press conference in Belgrade  that they believe in Serbian-French friendship and that they want to write new pages in the relations between the two countries, which is confirmed by the exchange of bilateral documents on cooperation, among which is the contract for the purchase of new fighter planes "Rafal" worth 2.7 billion euros. The first installment will be 421 million euros. Vucic did not answer the media's question about when the first aircraft is expected to be delivered.
Serbian President Aleksandar Vucic told RTS before French President Emmanuel Macron's visit to Belgrade that he will discuss very important issues with him, as well as that the purchase of Rafale aircraft is still being discussed and that it is no longer a question of price, but of certain guarantees.He noted that not everything is over when it comes to military-technical cooperation and the purchase of Rafal aircraft.
"The sleepless night is ahead of us and it is not over yet. It would be a big thing for us, because it would mean a huge progress in the combat readiness and military power of Serbia, the security of our country. We are not causing problems anywhere, nor do we plan to do so, nor do we intend to do so. This is a huge signal of trust between France and Serbia. We only want to preserve our country, but this would make Serbia many times, many times stronger. We have one more thing that we do not agree on. It is not a question of certain guarantees. If we manage to solve it, it will be fine, but we have been struggling with this for four days," said Vucic.
On the eve of Macron's two-day visit to Serbia, Vucic said that most of the planes Serbia has, or all the interceptor and fighter planes, come from Russia. "Most of our planes, or all our aircraft, all our interceptors and all our fighter planes came from Russia and now we have to change ourselves, our habits and everything else in order to prepare our army," said the President of Serbia.
The contract will most likely, financially speaking, be the most expensive single contract for the procurement of a weapon system and its supporting elements in the history of Serbia. About two billion and eight hundred million euros were given for all armaments for Serbia from 2014 to 2023.  The   Serbian Air Force and Air Defense will receive newly manufactured fighters, that is, in the case of the Rafale, new multi-purpose fighter planes, for the first time since 1987, when the Yugoslav People's Army's Air Force and Air Force acquired MiG-29 fighters .
French President Macron  welcomed the potential of a “strategic change” with the signing of the deal during his state visit to Belgrade. Serbia has been a candidate for EU membership since 2012 and hopes to strengthen ties with France. Macron said that Serbia has a place in the EU and that the EU needs a strong Serbia, but also that Serbia needs a strong and sovereign EU. “It is an opening towards a strategic change despite a lot of pressure, which must be underlined. It is real strategic courage and an opportunity for Europe,” said Macron during a press conference in Belgrade.
Defense Minister Bratislav Gašic signed a contract for the purchase of "Rafal" aircraft with the general director of the French company "Dassault Aviation" Erik Trapij, the total value of which is 2.7 billion euros. In the presence of the President of the Republic and Commander-in-Chief of the Serbian Armed Forces, Aleksandar Vucic, and the President of the Republic of France, Emmanuel Macron, a ceremony for the exchange of signed bilateral documents was held in the "Serbia" Palace.		 The Minister of Defense, Bratislav Gašic, exchanged the signed Agreement on the procurement of the Rafal aircraft and accompanying goods and services with the general manager of the Daso Avijacija company, Erik Trapij. The total value of the contract is 2.7 billion euros for 12 completely new aircraft, along with all the accompanying equipment, the Ministry of Defense announced.
The signing of the Agreement on the purchase of "Rafal" was attended by Assistant Minister for Material Resources Nenad Miloradovic, Commander of the Air Force and Air Defense Lieutenant General Duško Žarkovic and representatives of the company "Dassault Aviation". Equipping the Air Force and anti-aircraft defense with "Rafals" will provide long-term protection of the airspace of the Republic of Serbia and contribute to the overall security of our country and its citizens, according to the statement of the Ministry of Defense.
President Vucic said 30 August 2024 that "we are happy to become part of the "Rafal" club". He added that the contract signed with the French manufacturer, which includes a complete auxiliary logistics package, spare engines and other parts, is worth 2.7 billion euros. Macron emphasized that the choice of "Rafala" is a clear choice that represents the will for a long-term alliance between our two countries as part of a strong, sovereign European Union, and that choice participates in our strategic autonomy.
"We know how important Serbia is for the peace of the entire continent. Serbia has moved closer to the 'Rafala club' and it is very important that we have a strategic partner. I respect Serbia's sovereignty and partnerships with other countries. This is an indicator of the European spirit," Macron said. The French president thanked Vucic for his strategic decisions, for the commitment he has made, and that he appreciates the fact that he always does what he says.
"The decisions we made today in a modest way continue this glorious past and our friendship, which is really strong. I am your sincere friend and I respect you, we want to write new pages of our friendship at a time when it is important to have historical solid friends and that we have among to you," said Macron, who reminded us of the Olympic Games and heroic athletes like Novak Djokovic who connect us.
Macron and Vucic, at the end of the two-day official visit of the French statesman to Belgrade on 30 August 2024, emphasized the importance of friendship and cooperation between the two countries, and in that spirit unveiled a plaque - a symbol of the completion of the modernization of Nikola Tesla Airport. Macron said that his visit to Serbia fundamentally improved the relations between the two countries.
Vucic, said "Thank you very much for your visit, I see that everyone in the world is only commenting on 'Rafale', thank you for your trust in Serbia, thank you for your good will to spend time with us and thank you for the respect and honor you have shown to our small country". Vucic added that we are proud of our friendship and that we can't wait for another opportunity to warmly welcome Macron again in Serbia.
Macron thanked Vucic for his hospitality during the visit. "I want to tell you that France is a friend of Serbia and I am personally a friend of Serbia," Macron said and emphasized that he thinks the visit has fundamentally improved relations between France and Serbia.
Belgrade-based analyst Vuk Vuksanovic said that Vucic likely saw the Rafale deal as crucial for ensuring France’s support in the future. The president “believes that by purchasing these Rafales, which are an extremely expensive product of the French military and industry, he will buy President Macron’s favour and political protection,” Vuksanovic, a senior researcher at the Belgrade Centre for Security Policy, told AFP.
Vucic sought to assure that Serbia will not share Rafales technology with Moscow. "We are not Russian spies to transfer technology, we paid for this with Serbian citizens' money," Vucic said. Belgrade curtailed military cooperation with Moscow after Russia invaded Ukraine.
Le Mode editorialized 30 August 2024 "No one will dispute the benefits to France and Europe of equipping the Serbian air force with French rather than Russian – or even American – aircraft. Such a sale implies a prolonged link with the producing country, in terms of training, maintenance and the supply of spare parts. But we must hope that every precaution has been taken to guarantee the protection of the technology and know-how involved in the Rafale, in a country where Russian nationals have free rein, and where Chinese and Russian producers of anti-aircraft defenses will be able to verify their performance at their leisure."
NEWSLETTER     Join the GlobalSecurity.org mailing list       Enter Your Email Address


