China strongly deplores EU's accusation over latest collision at Xianbin Jiao in South China Sea
Global Times
_
20240903
https://www.globalsecurity.org/military/library/news/2024/09/mil-240902-globaltimes01.htm

Global Times
By Global Times Published: Sep 02, 2024 02:39 PM
The Chinese side strongly deplores, firmly opposes and rejects the European Union (EU)'s accusations, urging it to face up to the facts, maintain objectivity and fairness, exercise caution in words and deeds on the South China Sea issue, a spokesperson of the Chinese Mission to the EU said on Monday, after the European External Action Service (EEAS) spokesperson made irresponsible remarks on the South China Sea issue.
According to media reports, at 08:02 on Saturday, the Philippine ship 9701 weighed anchor and continued its provocations at China's Xianbin Jiao in the South China Sea. In response, the Chinese coast guard ship 5205 lawfully issued verbal warnings and conducted monitoring and control measures, according to the China Coast Guard (CCG) on Saturday.
At 12:06, the Philippine ship deliberately rammed into the Chinese ship 5205 in an unprofessional and dangerous manner, causing a collision for which the Philippines bears full responsibility, CCG spokesperson Liu Dejun said.
However, the EEAS spokesperson condemned Chinese side for the "dangerous actions" in a statement issued on Sunday.
Xianbin Jiao is part of China's Nansha Qundao and inherent Chinese territory. The Philippine Coast Guard vessels entered the lagoon of China's Xianbin Jiao and have been illegally there for a long time, unilaterally altering its uninhabited status without facilities. China has protested to the Philippines multiple times through diplomatic channels and asked the Philippines to withdraw its vessels immediately, according to the spokesperson from the Chinese Mission to the EU.
The Philippines has ignored these demands and instead intensified its actions by sending coast guard vessels to continue provocation in the lagoon of Xianbin Jiao and even acting dangerously to deliberately ram the Chinese Coast Guard vessel which was carrying out law enforcement operation.
These facts are crystal clear. The maneuvers by Chinese side at the scene were justified, lawful, professional and indisputable. The responsibility of causing the collision fully lies with the Philippines, the spokesperson noted.
The EU is not a party to the South China Sea issue and has no right to point fingers on this issue. In disregard of facts, to confuse right and wrong, the EU is openly backing the Philippines' provocative actions that infringe on China's territorial sovereignty, leading people to question the EU's motive by adding fuel to the fire and favoring one side of the issue, the spokesperson said.
China will continue to take resolute measures in accordance with the law to safeguard its territorial sovereignty and maritime rights and interests, and to uphold the seriousness of the Declaration on the Conduct of Parties in the South China Sea, according to the spokesperson.


