NZSIS shares more case studies in release of annual threat environment report
New Zealand Security Intelligence Service
_
20240904
https://www.globalsecurity.org/intell/library/news/2024/intell-240903-nzsis01.htm
New Zealand Security Intelligence Service
September 03, 2024
The New Zealand Security Intelligence Service (NZSIS) has   released its annual Security Threat Environment report, with updated   assessments on the nature of foreign interference, espionage and violent   extremism in New Zealand.
The second annual release of the report features more case studies to   illustrate the current range of threats observed by the NZSIS.
Director-General of Security Andrew Hampton said the release of last   year's unclassified report was a significant step in raising awareness,   and this year's edition goes even further.
"Our independent assessment is about being as upfront as we can   about the reality of national security threats facing our country. The   point is not to alarm anyone but to alert New Zealanders to the threats   so that we can work together to manage them," he said.
"In recent years there has been considerably more public   discussion around topics such as foreign interference and violent   extremism, which is why our annual assessment is so important. We aim to   provide an upfront and factual basis to this ongoing national   conversation."
There is a focus in the assessment on highlighting common behaviours   and activities associated with foreign interference, espionage and   violent extremism in New Zealand.
A number of real-world case studies are included in the analysis from   recent investigations that lift the lid on the range of national   security threats observed by the NZSIS.
The report contains links to relevant protective security advice to   help people and organisations take steps to increase their resilience to   these threats. There is also advice on how to respond after witnessing   any concerning behaviours or activities.
"When we all understand what's happening and some of the   motivations that lie behind these activities, everyone can be better   prepared to manage the risks, whether you are a member of a community,   business owner or an elected official" Andrew Hampton said.
"This report contains insights anyone can use. It can support   sound decision-making or even help someone ask the right questions such   as "what might this threat look like in our community" or "what does   this mean for our business or organisation?"
Key points from New Zealand's Security Threat Environment 2024: an   assessment by the New Zealand Security Intelligence Service include:
New Zealand's Security Threat Environment 2024 [PDF, 6 MB]


