US transfers 'some aircraft' used by former Afghan army to Uzbekistan
_
_
20240902
https://www.globalsecurity.org/military/library/news/2024/09/mil-240901-voa01.htm
By Samiullah Jalalzai, Roshan Noorzai September 01, 2024
The United States has handed over to the Uzbek government possession of aircraft that former Afghan air force personnel flew to Uzbekistan after the Taliban takeover of Kabul in 2021.
A spokesperson for the U.S. State Department told VOA on Thursday that the ownership of "some aircraft" was transferred to Uzbekistan as part of the Department of Defense's Excess Defense Articles program.
"This transfer was agreed in the context of our strong bilateral cooperation on counterterrorism, counternarcotics and enhanced border security," the spokesperson told VOA in an email, without saying how many aircraft were transferred to the Uzbek government.
The fate of aircraft that were flown to Uzbekistan after the fall of Afghanistan into the hands of the Taliban has been a bone of contention between the Taliban and Uzbekistan for three years.
Afghan air force personnel flew about 46 aircraft — 22 military planes and 24 helicopters — to Uzbekistan as the government in Afghanistan collapsed in the face of the Taliban's advances in August 2021.
The Taliban, who consider the aircraft to be Afghan property, objected to the handover of the aircraft to Uzbekistan.
"The Ministry of Defense [of the Taliban] clearly declares that the United States has no right to donate or confiscate the property of the Afghan people," the spokesperson of the Taliban's Ministry of Defense said in an audio message sent to media this week.
The Taliban spokesperson also called on Uzbekistan to make a "reasonable decision" to return the aircraft to the Taliban.
Local media in Uzbekistan reported last week that the U.S. ambassador said the aircraft had already been transferred.
Tashkent has not commented yet on the transfer. However, Uzbek authorities previously said that the aircraft belonged to the United States because the U.S. government paid for them and that it would not return the military equipment to the Taliban.
Tashkent-Taliban relations
Alisher Hamidov, an expert on Central Asia, told VOA that the transfer of aircraft to Uzbekistan may complicate the relations between Tashkent and the Taliban.
"The situation with the planes may now endanger Uzbekistan's diplomatic relations," he said, adding that Tashkent has been playing mediator between Kabul and other countries over the past three years.
"The main goal was to bring Afghanistan [Taliban] to the international arena, restore relations and, of course, strengthen Uzbekistan's economy and foreign policy," Hamidov added.
Uzbekistan has cultivated close relations with the Taliban, though it does not officially recognize the Taliban's government in Afghanistan.
On Thursday, the Taliban's deputy prime minister, Abdul Ghani Baradar, attended the inauguration ceremony of the Termez International Trade Center in Uzbekistan's border town of Termez.
On August 17, the prime minister of Uzbekistan, Abdulla Aripov, visited Kabul and signed 35 trade and investment agreements valued at $2.5 billion.
Malik Mansur of VOA's Uzbek Service contributed to this report, which originated in VOA's Afghan Service.


