Race for Alaska’s lone US House seat narrows to final 4 candidates
By BECKY BOHRER
_
20240901
https://apnews.com/article/election-2024-alaska-house-primary-results-522fac47756ab1bda0c90cb4a9dcf8b9
JUNEAU, Alaska (AP) — Two candidates who combined received just over 1% of the vote in Alaska’s U.S. House primary last week can advance to November’s ranked choice general election.
Matthew Salisbury, a Republican, and John Wayne Howe, who is chairman of the Alaskan Independence Party, can advance, according to results released late Friday by the state Division of Elections. The narrowed field already includes two frontrunners, Democratic U.S. Rep. Mary Peltola and Republican Nick Begich.
Alaska’s open primary system advances the top four vote-getters, regardless of party, to the general election. Peltola finished with the most votes in a field of 12 in the Aug. 20 primary, followed by Begich and Republican Lt. Gov. Nancy Dahlstrom, who was backed by former President Donald Trump. Far behind them were Salisbury and Howe, who led the remaining candidates.
Dahlstrom announced her withdrawal last week, and elections director Carol Beecher said this allowed for the fifth-place finisher to qualify for the November ballot.
Elections officials were targeting Sunday to certify the primary results, and Monday is the deadline for candidates to withdraw from the general election.
Peltola, Begich and Dahlstrom were the only candidates in the race to report raising any money.
Peltola became the first Alaska Native in Congress in 2022 following the death of Republican U.S. Rep. Don Young, who had held the seat for 49 years. The elections that year were the first held using the new voting process.

Begich, who has spoken against ranked choice voting, has said conservatives need to unite to defeat Peltola in November.
Dahlstrom, in announcing her decision Aug. 23, said that throughout her career she’s done “what’s right for Alaska. And today is no different. At this time, the best thing I can do for our state and our Party is to withdraw my name from the general election ballot and end my campaign.”
An initiative that seeks to repeal the open primary and ranked vote general election system also will appear on the fall ballot.
Salisbury, in his candidate statement filed with the Division of Elections, said the culture in Washington “has allowed the citizen to be forgotten. I have joined the race for our solo seat in the house, to make sure the voices of the people are heard and in turn amplified throughout D.C. and the country.”
Howe, in his statement, said Alaskans are “imprisoned by Government” and called the federal government “an oppressing master.”
There are nearly 18,900 registered voters with the Alaskan Independence Party, making it the third largest of the four recognized political parties in the state, according to Division of Elections statistics. But the majority of registered voters aren’t affiliated with a party.
