'Kolkata Police offered us money,' RG Kar victim's father alleges joining massive night vigil
India Blooms News Service
04 Sep 2024, 11:42 pm
20240904
https://www.indiablooms.com/news-details/N/99594/-kolkata-police-offered-us-money-rg-kar-victim-s-father-alleges-joining-massive-night-vigil.html
"We have come to know that the police outpost outside RG Kar Hospital came to know about the incident at 10.10 but why didn't they conduct any medical examination? We were called around 11 AM and were told suicide, Why were we given such false information?" the victim's father said at a press conference organised by the doctors outside the hospital.
Also read: Live Blog: RG Kar protest: Kolkata stages second night vigil seeking justice
"When we reached the hospital we were made to sit outside the seminar room for long. My wife begged the police to let us see our doctor's corpse but they did not allow us. We were rather taken to the Principal's room and asked to sign on a white sheet of paper," he said.
The family said they wanted to preserve the daughter's corpse but alleged that the police were in a hurry to cremate their daughter's body.
People lighted candles and raised slogans in Jadavpur area of South Kolkata to protest against the rape and murder of a PG trainee doctor in state-run RG Kar Medical College and Hospital on Wednesday. West Bengal is witness in another night of massive protests demanding justice… pic.twitter.com/QxwsgdpRWE
"We want to question why there was so much delay in conducting the autopsy, and then why it was carried out after 6 PM. There were no FIRs filed until I filed one in the evening," the father said.
"Our daughter's body was taken for cremation even without our knowledge. Why was the police in such a hurry? The police have been lying since the very beginning. They did not even let me pay for my daughter's cremation."
The parents alleged that they were offered money. "DC North took me to a deserted lane outside my house and offered me money. I not only declined the money but gave her a befitting reply," the victim's father said.
During a press meet, Abhaya's aunt even alleged that she was pushed to a corner.
People sang ‘Azadi’ at 8B bus stand area in South Kolkata to protest against the Rape and murder of a doctor in Kolkata’s state-run RG Kar Medical College Hospital #Kolkata #KolkataDeathCase #KolkataDoctorCase #KolkataDoctorDeath #RGKarCase pic.twitter.com/kbclGaH2U3
The family has urged the media to bring out more information and proof in the case that might be helpful in the investigation.
In a rare show of citizens' solidarity, Kolkata is observing its second-night vigil by turning off lights and coming out on streets with candles in their hands in demand of justice for the 31-year-old junior doctor who was brutally raped and murdered at RG Kar Hospital even though there is a strong disappointment among protesters over the cancellation of the Supreme Court hearing on September 5.
Women,children and people from all walks of life demonstrated in different corners of Kolkata to demand justice for the victims #rgkar #RGKarCase #rgkarincident #KolkataPolice #KolkataDeathCase #KolkataDoctor #RGKarMedicalCollege pic.twitter.com/hLYIgmU8M3
The hearing was cancelled as Chief Justice DY Chandrachud will not be holding the court on Thursday.
The announcement is a major blow to the junior doctors and protesters, who had been waiting with bated breath and expecting justice for the victim of the brutal rape and murder that took place at Kolkata's RG Kar Medical College and Hospital on August 9.
The junior doctors, who have organised this second-night vigil across Kolkata, have thanked people for coming out in huge numbers to express solidarity in seeking justice. The protesters promised to continue their fight until justice is delivered.
