Amid massive public anger over RG Kar case, Mamata Banerjee brings anti-rape bill in Bengal assembly
India Blooms News Service
03 Sep 2024, 02:17 pm
20240903
https://www.indiablooms.com/news-details/N/99549/amid-massive-public-anger-over-rg-kar-case-mamata-banerjee-brings-anti-rape-bill-in-bengal-assembly.html
The introduction of the bill was followed by a heated exchange between Leader of Opposition Suvendu Adhikari and Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee.
The bill has been named as Aparajita Women and Child Bill 2024.
The bill also proposed the creation of a Special Task Force at the district level.
It also aims to make a dedicated special court and investigation team.
Speaking in the assembly, Mamata Banerjee said, "We brought the bill for protection of women. But the Prime Minister of India could not. So the Prime Minister should resign."
Adhikari listed Banerjee's past statements on various rape cases citing newspaper articles. However, the Speaker refused to accept them as, he claims, they are subjected to cross-check.
The Chief Minister refuted the claims terming them as "fake news".
VIDEO | West Bengal CM Mamata Banerjee (@MamataOfficial) speaks in the state Assembly as the TMC government tables the anti-rape Bill.  Titled the 'Aparajita Woman and Child Bill (West Bengal Criminal Laws and Amendment) Bill 2024,' the legislation aims to strengthen protections… pic.twitter.com/wlgVrhtm9R
Mamata Banerjee govt faces protests over RG Kar case
Junior doctors across West Bengal are on an indefinite strike after a 31-year-old trainee doctor was brutally raped and murdered at Kolkata's state-run RG Kar Medical College and Hospital.
Kolkata, its neighbouring districts have been witnessing relentless, unprecedented protests after the post-graduate medical student was raped and murdered at her workplace on the intervening night of August 8 and 9.
Junior doctors and protesters suspect the crime was committed by more than one and an attempt to tamper with evidence and cover up the crime is at play right from the beginning.
The Mamata Banerjee government is now in a crisis as people's protests roil the state challenging the state administration, which was marred by political violence and rampant corruption cases for more than a decade now.
The administration's swift run for the last rites of the victim and demolition work near the crime scene have raised some uncomfortable questions for the state administration, which is helmed by Mamata Banerjee who holds both the police and health portfolios.
