RG Kar protests: Junior doctors, denied march to Kolkata police headquarters, camp on road overnight
India Blooms News Service
03 Sep 2024, 12:44 pm
20240903
https://www.indiablooms.com/news-details/N/99547/rg-kar-protests-junior-doctors-denied-march-to-kolkata-police-headquarters-camp-on-road-overnight.html
After they were refused to march to Lalbazar, junior doctors on Monday evening camped themselves at Phears Lane in central Kolkata on way to the police headquarters.
The protesters, who demanded the resignation of Commissioner of Police Vineet Goyal, spent the entire night at Phears Lane, managed to install temporary toilets for women refusing to return until their demands were met.
Kinjal Nanda, one of the protesters, told a cop this morning, "We request you to either allow us to march to Lalbazar and then a team will submit the deputation or CP may come to us here and receive the deputation or the CP resigns from his office and we will return immediately."
The cops, who smiled at Nanda's proposals, are yet to make a decision.
Striking junior doctors from various state-run medical college and hospitals on Monday (Sept 2) marched from College Square to Lalbazar police headquarters demanding justice for the RG Kar rape-murder victim and the resignation of the city’s police commissioner Vineet Goyal. The protesting junior doctors have camped at the Phears Lane where they spent the last night and refused to leave until their demands are met. (Images by Avishek Mitra/IBNS)
Junior doctors across West Bengal are on an indefinite strike after a 31-year-old trainee doctor was brutally raped and murdered at Kolkata's state-run RG Kar Medical College and Hospital.
Kolkata, its neighbouring districts have been witnessing relentless, unprecedented protests after the post-graduate medical student was raped and murdered at her workplace on the intervening night of August 8 and 9.
Junior doctors and protesters suspect the crime was committed by more than one and an attempt to tamper with evidence and cover up the crime is at play right from the beginning.
The Mamata Banerjee government is now in a crisis as people's protests roil the state challenging the state administration, which was marred by political violence and rampant corruption cases for more than a decade now.
The administration's swift run for the last rites of the victim and demolition work near the crime scene have raised some uncomfortable questions for the state administration, which is helmed by Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee who holds both the police and health portfolios.
