Sentiment on ground is anti-India, anti-women and anti-democracy, says Taslima Nasreen on current situation in Bangladesh
India Blooms News Service
04 Sep 2024, 06:03 pm
20240904
https://www.indiablooms.com/world-details/SA/43304/sentiment-on-ground-is-anti-india-anti-women-and-anti-democracy-says-taslima-nasreen-on-current-situation-in-bangladesh.html
Nasreen, whose books are banned in Bangladesh, told The New Indian Express: "The interim government led by Md Yunus will make things worse as the violence after the ouster of Sheikh Hasina was referred to as celebration. Temples were vandalised, museums and statues of Sheikh Mujibur Rahman were broken and minorities like Hindus were targeted. "
"The sentiment on the ground is anti-India, anti-women and anti-democracy. Radicalisation has gone up manifold in the country. Islamists have asked people to boycott Indian products," she said.
Taslima Nasreen said Bangladesh is witnessing a rise in intolerance.
"There is no freedom of expression. Human rights are being violated and soon women will be left without any rights after the imposition of Sharia law. Hizb ut-Tahrir, Jamaat-I-Islami and radicalised students are gaining prominence with each passing day," she told the newspaper.
Nasreen worried that women will be badly hit in the South Asian country.
"The increasing prominence of radical Islamists will take away the rights of women by imposing restrictions and controlling them under the Sharia law. Universities have already begun to issue diktats on Islamic dress code," she said.
Bangladesh witnessed a massive political upsurge in recent months with students protesting against the job quota issue and soon the demonstration turned into a massive movement demanding the ouster of former PMSheikh Hasina-led government.
The violence led to over 300 deaths.
Amid the violence demonstrations, PM Sheikh Hasina fled to India last month and she is still present in the neighbouring nation.
Hasina had returned to power for another term after winning the general polls in January.
Following the ouster of Hasina-led government, Muhammad Yunus-led interim government has taken charge of the country.
