USA: Georgia school shooting leaves four dead, suspect taken to custody
India Blooms News Service
05 Sep 2024, 01:02 am
20240904
https://www.indiablooms.com/world-details/USN/43307/usa-georgia-school-shooting-leaves-four-dead-suspect-taken-to-custody.html
Georgia Bureau of Investigation said one person has been taken into custody.
The Bureau said reports that the suspects have been ‘neutralized’ are inaccurate.
"Four dead. An additional nine taken to various hospitals with injuries. Suspect in custody and alive. Reports that the suspect has been ‘neutralized’ are inaccurate," the bureau posted on X.
According to reports, students were evacuated from Apalachee High School in Barrow County following the shooting incident.
The school is located in Winder town.
Witness describes the horrifying moment of attack
Senior Sergio Caldera, 17, said he was in chemistry when the gunshot was first heard.
"My teacher goes and opens the door to see what’s going on. Another teacher comes running in and tells her to close the door because there’s an active shooter," Caldera told ABC News.
He said the teachers locked the door and the students ran to the back of the room after hearing the gunshots.
At some point, Caldera said someone pounded on his classroom door and shouted "open up!" multiple times. When the knocking stopped, Caldera said he heard more gunshots and screams, ABC News reported.
Another student named  Kyson Stancion told ABC News, " I was scared because I’ve never been in a school shooting."
He said his classmates were crying and the teacher was trying to keep them safe.
President Joe Biden, Kamala Harris briefed on shooting incident
President Joe Biden and Vice President Kamala Harris were briefed on the shooting incident.
In a statement, Joe Biden said: " Jill and I are mourning the deaths of those whose lives were cut short due to more senseless gun violence and thinking of all of the survivors whose lives are forever changed. What should have been a joyous back-to-school season in Winder, Georgia, has now turned into another horrific reminder of how gun violence continues to tear our communities apart."
"Students across the country are learning how to duck and cover instead of how to read and write," he said.
In his strong message, Biden said such situations could not continue to happen as normal.
"We cannot continue to accept this as normal," he said.
Georgia Governor Brian Kemp posted on X: " I have directed all available state resources to respond to the incident at Apalachee High School and urge all Georgians to join my family in praying for the safety of those in our classrooms, both in Barrow County and across the state."
Gun shootings in various schools and colleges across the USA have occurred for the past two decades.
