RG Kar rape-murder: Arrested civic volunteer Sanjoy Roy to plead innocence, claims he was being framed
India Blooms News Service
03 Sep 2024, 10:57 am
20240903
https://www.indiablooms.com/news-details/N/99544/rg-kar-rape-murder-arrested-civic-volunteer-sanjoy-roy-to-plead-innocence-claims-he-was-being-framed.html
Sanjoy, the first and only arrested person in the rape-murder case so far, has recently undergone a polygraph test, which is also known as the lie-detector test, where the Central Bureau of Investigation had asked him 10 questions.
When a CBI officer asked him what he did after murdering the doctor, Sanjoy reportedly stopped him to claim he did not commit the crime.
Sanjoy claimed he discovered the doctor was in a pool of blood and unconscious when he entered the seminar hall, the crime scene.
After seeing her in that condition, Sanjoy claimed he "panicked and ran out of the seminar hall".
When he was asked why he didn't inform the cops, Sanjoy said no one would have believed him. Sanjoy claimed he was being framed in the case.
The Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI), entrusted with the investigation of RG Kar murder as well as the financial irregularities carried out at the facility, has arrested the medical college's ex-principal Sandip Ghosh.
In another development, ruling Trinamool Chhatra Parishad Monday suspended SSKM Hospital PGT Abhik Dey from the organization soon after Sandip Ghosh's arrest. This comes after some pictures, released last Friday, showed Abhik Dey allegedly present among a group of men wearing a red shirt at the seminar room of the Pulmonary Medicine Department of RG Kar where the body of the junior doctor, raped and murdered, was seen lying.
Meanwhile, junior doctors across West Bengal are on an indefinite strike after a 31-year-old trainee doctor was brutally raped and murdered at Kolkata's state-run RG Kar Medical College and Hospital.
Striking junior doctors from various state-run medical college and hospitals on Monday (Sept 2) marched from College Square to Lalbazar police headquarters demanding justice for the RG Kar rape-murder victim and the resignation of the city’s police commissioner Vineet Goyal. The protesting junior doctors have camped at the Phears Lane where they spent the last night and refused to leave until their demands are met. Photo by Avishek Mitra/IBNS
Kolkata, its neighbouring districts have been witnessing relentless, unprecedented protests after the post-graduate medical student was raped and murdered at her workplace on the intervening night of August 8 and 9.
Junior doctors and protesters suspect the crime was committed by more than one and an attempt to tamper with evidence and cover up the crime is at play right from the beginning.
The Mamata Banerjee government is now in a crisis as people's protests roil the state challenging the state administration, which was marred by political violence and rampant corruption cases for more than a decade now.
The administration's swift run for the last rites of the victim and demolition work near the crime scene have raised some uncomfortable questions for the state administration, which is helmed by Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee who holds both the police and health portfolios.
